Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488




      Two Shifts for Crop Mapping: Leveraging Aggregate
     Crop Statistics to Improve Satellite-based Maps in New
                             Regions

 Dan M. Klugera,*, Sherrie Wangb,c, David B. Lobellb


 a   Department of Statistics, Sequoia Hall, Mail Code 4095, 390 Jane Stanford Way, Stanford
      University, Stanford, CA 94305-4020, United States of America
 b   Department of Earth System Science and Center on Food Security and the Environment, Encina
      Hall East, 616 Jane Stanford Way, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-4205, United
      States of America
 c Institute for Computational and Mathematical Engineering, Huang Engineering Building, 475


      Via Ortega, Suite B060, Stanford, CA 94305-4042, United States of America
 *   Corresponding author


 E-mail addresses: kluger@stanford.edu (Dan M. Kluger), sherwang@stanford.edu (Sherrie
 Wang), dlobell@stanford.edu (David B. Lobell)



 Keywords: Machine Learning, Transfer learning, Anticausal Learning, Domain Shift,
 Classification, Remote sensing, Crop mapping, Agriculture, Sentinel-2




 © 2021. This manuscript version is made available under the CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0
 license https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/




                                                    1
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488



 Abstract: Crop type mapping at the field level is critical for a variety of applications in

 agricultural monitoring, and satellite imagery is becoming an increasingly abundant and useful

 raw input from which to create crop type maps. Still, in many regions crop type mapping with

 satellite data remains constrained by a scarcity of field-level crop labels for training supervised

 classification models. When training data is not available in one region, classifiers trained in

 similar regions can be transferred, but shifts in the distribution of crop types as well as

 transformations of the features between regions leads to reduced classification accuracy. We

 present a methodology that uses aggregate-level crop statistics to correct the classifier by

 accounting for these two types of shifts. To adjust for shifts in the crop type composition we

 present a scheme for properly reweighting the posterior probabilities of each class that are output

 by the classifier. To adjust for shifts in features we propose a method to estimate and remove

 linear shifts in the mean feature vector. We demonstrate that this methodology leads to

 substantial improvements in overall classification accuracy when using Linear Discriminant

 Analysis (LDA) to map crop types in Occitanie, France and in Western Province, Kenya. When

 using LDA as our base classifier, we found that in France our methodology led to percent

 reductions in misclassifications ranging from 2.8% to 42.2% (mean=21.9%) over eleven different

 training departments, and in Kenya the percent reductions in misclassification were 6.6%, 28.4%,

 and 42.7% for three training regions. While our methodology was statistically motivated by the

 LDA classifier, it can be applied to any type of classifier. As an example, we demonstrate its

 successful application to improve a Random Forest classifier.




                                                    2
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 1) Introduction

 Crop type mapping at the field resolution is a prerequisite to mapping farm management and

 yield outcomes at large spatial scale. This task is all the more urgent in a time when populations

 in food-insecure regions continue to increase and climate change is predicted to adversely affect

 global agriculture.




 Traditionally, crop type information has been obtained from field surveys and censuses, but such

 surveys are expensive and time consuming to conduct. Therefore, in many countries, the surveys

 are often constrained to small geographical regions. With the increasing abundance and

 availability of satellite data, there is an opportunity to augment these surveys by creating low-

 cost crop type maps using remotely sense spectral band time series data (Waldner et al., 2015).

 Efforts to augment data from limited field surveys has been aided by the recent success of

 various machine learning methods including Neural Networks (Cai et al., 2018; Fu et al., 2017).




 There are still major challenges, however, in using machine learning methods to create crop type

 maps. First, these methods have seen limited success in settings where there is not abundant

 labeled data, as is the case in many countries (Defourny et al., 2019). Second, since the labeled

 data is often constrained to a small geographical region, using machine learning methods to

 extrapolate crop type maps in regions outside of the geographical training region can be plagued

 by heterogeneity of agricultural settings. While transferring machine learning classifiers to

 neighboring regions can help, this approach has seen limited success so far. In Wang et al.

 (2019), the test set transfer accuracy of Random Forests trained and tested on distinct states in the

 United States was high when the two states had similar growing degree days but performed
                                                    3
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 poorly when the growing degree days differed by a lot. Further, Random Forest transfer accuracy

 tends to be lower when the proportions of each crop type on the training region are very different

 than those on the test region (Wang et al., 2019, Waldner et al., 2017).




 Due to the evident need to account for regional discrepancies when transferring machine learning

 prediction tools between regions, a few deep learning-based approaches have been proposed to

 reduce accuracy loss when transferring a classifier trained on remote sensing data to new

 geographical regions. Approaches that involve removing the last layer of a pretrained Neural

 Network and building a Neural Network on top of the removed layer have seen success in remote

 sensing applications (Wang et al., 2018, Pires de Lima and Marfurt, 2019); however, these

 approaches require some training labels from the target dataset or region. Another type of deep

 learning-based approach is adversarial domain adaptation, which has shown recent success in

 remote sensing tasks of vehicle detection (Koga et al., 2020), urban land cover mapping (Fang et

 al., 2019), and even satellite-based crop classification (Elshamli et al., 2017). Despite their

 promise and success, these methods are computationally intensive and none of them leverage

 prior information about the distribution of class labels in the target region.




 The goal of this paper is to present and test a methodology for improving the accuracy of transfer

 learning in multi-class crop classification settings where only one region has labeled data but all

 regions have aggregate-level crop statistics. The methodology corrects for two types of shifts

 between the training and testing region. The first type is a shift in the distribution of crop types

 between regions, which has been observed to lower classification accuracy in the test region

 (Waldner et al., 2017; Wang et al., 2019). The second type is a systemic transformation of the

                                                    4
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 features between regions, often caused by differences in farm management, growing degree days,

 or other climatic variables. For example, growing seasons can shift, shrink, or extend as one

 moves to new climatic regimes. In addition, the value of spectral bands at the peak of the

 growing season can shift up or down if the overall suitability of conditions differs between

 regions. We call the methods presented in this paper for correcting for each type of shift “Prior

 Shift Adjustment” (PSA) and “Feature Shift Adjustment” (FSA) respectively. The two methods

 are easily combinable to correct a classifier for both types of shifts simultaneously.




 We emphasize that the methodology here relies on using aggregate-level crop type statistics to

 estimate the distribution of the crop labels in each region. Aggregate-level crop statistics are

 often available even in settings where field-level crop type data are unavailable. For example,

 You et al.,2014 incorporated large amounts of subnational aggregate-level data from Agro-

 MAPS and other sources into their Spatial Production Allocation Model, which at the time of this

 writing, uses aggregate-level crop statistics from at least 60% of level 1 administrative units and

 from at least 35% of level 2 administrative units globally (MapSPAM methodology, n.d.).




 Because of the availability of aggregate-level crop statistics, crop type mapping is a machine

 learning-based classification setting where it is commonly possible to estimate the distribution of

 the true classes on an unlabeled target dataset. In machine learning, having prior knowledge of

 the distribution of the classes on an unlabeled target dataset is a relatively uncommon luxury;

 therefore, methods that exploit this luxury are either not widely taught or are underdeveloped. To

 our knowledge, no feature shift adjustment method has been proposed that leverages prior

 information on the distribution of the classes in the target unlabeled dataset. Thus, it is important

                                                    5
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 to explore and develop new methods that leverage prior information about the distribution of the

 classes within the target unlabeled dataset, as exploring such methods can lead to improved crop

 type maps.




 To make progress toward this goal, this paper focuses on experiments in two contrasting settings:

 Occitanie, France and Western Province, Kenya. In each case, we test the performance of models

 trained in one part of the region and then applied in the remaining parts of the region. The labeled

 dataset in Occitanie, France spans 13 different departments and is both large and accurate,

 making it an ideal dataset to verify the validity and accuracy of the methodology we present. The

 dataset from Western Province, Kenya is more representative of a setting where field-level crop

 labels are scarce and constrained to small geographical regions, and therefore represents a setting

 where such a methodology would likely be used.




 The structure of this paper is as follows. In Section 2 we present the prior shift and feature shift

 adjustment methods. The first is a well-established method to correct a classifier for differences

 in the distributions of classes between the training and test regions (Saerens et al., 2002). The

 second method corrects for a shift in the mean value of each feature as one moves from the

 training region to the test region, without removing the component of feature mean shift that is

 driven by differing crop type distributions between the two regions. In Section 3, we describe our

 two datasets in detail and the data processing steps that were taken. In Section 4, we present the

 accuracy of our methods when training on one region and testing on other regions for two types

 of classifiers, LDA and Random Forest. We also compare our results with those of transfer

 learning approaches that use data balancing or standardization techniques. In Section 5, we

                                                    6
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 interpret our results and discuss why our methodology is most suitable for LDA classifiers but

 still helpful for other machine learning classifiers. We also discuss the benefits of picking a

 diverse region to train on, if the option is available.




 2) Prior Shift and Feature Shift Adjustment methodology




 2.1) Prior Shift Adjustment

 In machine learning-based classification tasks, the distribution of test set labels can be very

 different from that of the training set, leading to suboptimal classification accuracy. To pinpoint

 the reason for this reduced classification accuracy, we briefly describe the underlying steps often

 involved in machine learning classification. Many machine learning classifiers (e.g. LDA,

 Multiple Logistic Regression, Neural Networks, etc.) use the training data features and labels to

 determine a function that maps the features of an observation to the estimated posterior

 probabilities that the observation is in each class. To estimate the label, the classifier chooses the

 class with the highest estimated posterior probability. This function, however, gives posterior

 probability estimates for points that are drawn from the training set distribution, whereas ideally

 the function would give posterior probability estimates for points drawn from the test set

 distribution. Therefore, problems can arise in supervised learning when the proportion of test set

 labels of each class is very different from that of the training set (see Waldner et al., 2017 for a

 reference highlighting this issue in a binary crop classification setting). For example, if in the

 training set wheat is much more prevalent than barley, but in the test set barley is more prevalent

 than wheat, a classifier applied naively (i.e. without prior shift adjustments) will guess wheat in

 borderline cases on the test set when intuitively it should guess barley in borderline cases.
                                                    7
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488




 To address this issue in settings where the label distribution of the test set is known, we propose

 using the method presented in equation 4 of Saerens et al., 2002. We present the method in the

 subsequent paragraph and provide a mathematical justification for the method in Appendix A.




 Suppose there are 𝐾 different classes and let 𝑋 and 𝑌 be the features and class label, respectively,

 of a randomly sampled point (from either the training set or the test set). Let 𝑃𝑇𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 and 𝑃𝑇𝑒𝑠𝑡

 denote the joint distributions for (𝑋, 𝑌) on the training set and test set, respectively. For each 𝑘 =

 1, … , 𝐾 let 𝑃̂𝑇𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 (𝑌 = 𝑘 |𝑋 = 𝑥) be the estimate of the posterior probability that a point with

 features 𝑥 is in class 𝑘. Such posterior probabilities are automatically returned by standard

 machine learning classification methods such as LDA, Multiple Logistic Regression, Neural

 Networks, and even Random Forest (though those for Random Forest and Neural Networks can

 be poorly calibrated). Further, let 𝑃̂𝑇𝑒𝑠𝑡 (𝑌 = 𝑘) be an estimate of the proportion of crops in class

 𝑘 on the test set, which is calculated using aggregate-level crop statistics (see Section 3.2), and

 let 𝑃̂𝑇𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 (𝑌 = 𝑘) be the proportion of labeled training points that are in class 𝑘. The Prior Shift

 Adjusted (PSA for short) classifier presented in Equation 4 of Saerens et al., 2002, is given by




                                                                     𝑃̂𝑇𝑒𝑠𝑡 (𝑌 = 𝑘)
                    𝑙̂𝑃𝑆𝐴 (𝑥) = argmax {𝑃̂𝑇𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 (𝑌 = 𝑘 |𝑋 = 𝑥)                      }
                                𝑘∈{1,2,…,𝐾}                         𝑃̂𝑇𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 (𝑌 = 𝑘)




 According to the above formula, the PSA classifier reweights the posterior probabilities for each

 class by the ratio of that class's prevalence on the test set over its prevalence on the training set


                                                    8
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 and picks the class with the highest such reweighted posterior probability to be the fitted label.

 Note that when the distribution of the training labels and the test labels are estimated to be the

 same, the PSA classifier will be exactly the same as the unadjusted classifier which assigns a

 class label of argmax 𝑃̂𝑇𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 (𝑌 = 𝑘 |𝑋 = 𝑥) to an unlabeled instance with features 𝑥. The above
               𝑘∈{1,2,…,𝐾}


 formula for the PSA classifier involves a similar reweighting approach to Importance Weighted

 Cross Validation (Sugiyama et al., 2007) but has a couple of notable differences: in PSA the

 weights are ratios of class probabilities, rather than ratios of feature densities, and PSA is a

 method that is applied after training a base classifier, rather than a scheme for reweighting the

 loss function before training the classifier.

 In Appendix A, we show that the PSA method maximizes the overall accuracy when we assume

 that the conditional distributions of the features given the class label are the same on the training

 and test set and that the classifier properly learns such conditional distributions. Further, we

 argue in Appendix A that the method is nearly optimal when these assumptions are weakly

 violated.




 2.2) Feature Shift Adjustment

 When applying a classifier to a separate region than it was trained on, another major cause of

 accuracy loss is that there can be a systemic change in feature space between regions. This

 transfer learning hurdle is sometimes referred to as Domain Shift (Storkey, 2009). In our setting,

 common reasons for this phenomenon are that farm management practices can vary as one moves

 to new regions and that growing seasons can shift, shrink, or extend by a few days as one moves

 to new climatic regimes. In addition, the peak value in the time series of a spectral band (or


                                                    9
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 vegetation index) can increase or decrease due to differing climatic or management (e.g.

 fertilization rates) conditions between regions.




 We develop an approach that corrects for a shift in the mean of the features between the training

 set and test set. Shifts in the composition of crop types between regions can cause apparent

 feature shifts, with the overall feature mean vector moving towards those of crops with increased

 proportion in the new region and away from those of crops with decreasing proportion. Our

 approach therefore decomposes shifts into those that arise from a change in distribution of the

 test labels (i.e. apparent feature shifts) and those that arise from true feature shifts. In particular,

 suppose we have 𝑅 regions and 𝐾 crop types, and for 𝑟 = 1, … , 𝑅 and 𝑘 = 1, … , 𝐾 let 𝜇⃗𝑟,𝑘 denote

 the mean feature vector in region 𝑟 for crops of type 𝑘. To adjust for translations in the mean of

 the features between regions, we consider the following additive model:

                                𝜇⃗𝑟,𝑘 =𝑎⃗𝑟 + 𝑏⃗⃗𝑘 for 𝑟 = 1, … , 𝑅 and 𝑘 = 1, … , 𝐾


 where 𝑎⃗𝑟 and 𝑏⃗⃗𝑘 are constant vectors for region r and crop type k. This additive model says that

 the mean feature vector 𝜇⃗𝑟,𝑘 of each region and crop type stratum can be written as the sum of a

 regional component and a crop type component; the additive model assumes there are no

 interactions between the crop type and region variables.




 Suppose we have labeled data only for region 𝑟𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 , but we know the distribution of the labels

 for all regions. That is, if 𝑝𝑟,𝑘 equals the proportion of labels in region 𝑟 that are of type 𝑘, we

 know 𝑝𝑟,𝑘 for 𝑟 = 1, … , 𝑅 and 𝑘 = 1, … , 𝐾. Then we can estimate the regional contributions 𝑎⃗𝑟

 for 𝑟 ≠ 𝑟𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 with the following two-step procedure:

                                                    10
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

                           ⃗⃗ without loss of generality, and estimate each 𝑏⃗⃗𝑘 with 𝑏⃗⃗̂𝑘 where 𝑏⃗⃗̂𝑘 is the
         1) Let 𝑎⃗𝑟𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 = 0

         sample mean vector of the features for crop type 𝑘 in the training region


         2) Estimate each 𝑎⃗𝑟 with 𝑎̂⃗𝑟 = 𝑋̅𝑟 − ∑𝐾        ⃗⃗̂      ̅
                                                 𝑘=1 𝑝𝑟,𝑘 𝑏𝑘 where 𝑋𝑟 is the sample mean vector of


         the features in region 𝑟. Repeat for each 𝑟 ≠ 𝑟𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 .




 Once completing the above steps, for each 𝑟 ≠ 𝑟𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 , we subtract the estimated regional

 contributions 𝑎̂⃗𝑟 from the feature vector of each test point in that region before applying a

 classifier. In particular, if you train a classifier 𝑙̂(∙) on region 𝑟𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 and wish to classify a point

 on region 𝑟 with feature vector 𝑥, our proposed Feature Shift Adjusted (FSA) classifier is given

 by 𝑙̂𝐹𝑆𝐴 (𝑥) = 𝑙̂(𝑥 − 𝑎̂⃗𝑟 ). In essence, this proposed classifier removes the estimated regional

 effects under the previously described additive model. Note that this FSA classifier can easily be

 combined with the PSA classifier 𝑙̂𝑃𝑆𝐴 (∙) of Section 2.1 using 𝑙̂𝐹𝑃𝑆𝐴 (𝑥) = 𝑙̂𝑃𝑆𝐴 (𝑥 − 𝑎̂⃗𝑟 ) where 𝑟

 is the test region. We will call this the combined Feature and Prior Shift Adjusted (FPSA)

 classifier, and it is recommended to combine the two approaches in settings where there is both

 substantial feature shift and prior shift.




 While the additive model is unlikely to hold exactly in realistic settings, there are a few reasons

 that justify our proposed use of an additive model. First, if the interaction terms between the crop

 type and region that contribute to 𝜇⃗𝑟,𝑘 are sufficiently small, the FSA classifier will remove most

 of the regional effects and will still confer significant benefits. Second, in settings where labeled

 data is only available in one region 𝑟𝑡𝑟𝑎𝑖𝑛 and the remaining regions have aggregate-level crop

 statistics but do not have available field-level labels, alternative models that include interaction
                                                     11
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 terms between the crop type and region, such as a multiplicative one with main effects for crop

 type and region, cannot be fit; only models without interactions can be fit. Ultimately, it is better

 to correct for main effects with a method such as FSA or FPSA when possible than to completely

 ignore the main effects, even when there are large interaction terms. Third, the use of models

 with assumptions that do not necessarily hold are routinely justified empirically by checking

 whether they lead to more accurate predictions. To this end, in Section 4 we investigate the

 accuracy of FPSA when compared to alternative transfer learning methods.




 3) Data and methods

 3.1) Field-level polygons and labels

 3.1.1) Field-level dataset from France




 The French Land Parcel Identification System is a very large and accurate dataset of parcels in

 France with crop type labels exclusively obtained by on the ground field surveys. From this

 dataset, we randomly sampled 100,000 labeled parcel centroids that were recorded in 2017 and

 were within the rectangular region between 42.3º N and 45.1º N and between 0.4º W and 4.9º E

 (which completely encompasses the Occitanie region, depicted in the top panel of Figure 1). Of

 these labeled parcels, 74,169 fell within Occitanie and were included in our analyses.




                                                   12
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488




                                                   13
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488




 Figure 1: Top: Map of the departments in Occitanie, France. Our dataset includes labeled data from all 13
 departments in Occitanie. Parts of France that lie outside the Occitanie border are colored in dark grey. For
 departments with abbreviated names, the orange box includes the full name of the department along with the
 abbreviation in parenthesis. The colored points on the plot depict the spatial distributions of the parcels in our
 simplified six-class, classification dataset in Occitanie, France, colored by crop type. Bottom: Map of 3 regions with
 Western Province, Kenya. Our dataset includes labeled data from the regions Bungoma, Busia, and Siaya (colored in
 light grey). Parts of Kenya that lie outside of these three regions are colored in dark grey. The colored points on the
 plot depict spatial distributions of the labeled pixels in our nine-class, classification dataset in Western Province,
 Kenya, colored by crop type.


 To simplify our classification task, we identified the 17 most common field labels among the

 74,169 sampled parcels and removed 12,892 parcels that had labels which were not among these

 17. We then removed 8,613 parcels that had labels of either “field border”, “buffer strip” or

 “agricultural area not exploited.” This led to a final dataset of 52,664 fields with 14 different

 classes. We further consolidated the 14 remaining classes into 6 classes by changing the label of

 both “soft winter wheat” and “hard winter wheat” to “winter wheat”, and by assigning many

 different types of meadow, fallow and pastoral lands the label meadow-fallow-pastoral (MFP).

 See Appendix B for a table of the field labels and counts in the original subsample of 74,169

 parcels from Occitanie as well as a color-coded depiction of how we simplified our classification

 task. In subsequent data processing steps, an additional 23 parcels were removed due to failure to

 fit a harmonic regression to each spectral band caused by too many days with cloud cover

 detected (see Section 3.4.2 and Section 3.4.3). In summary, because we were focused on

 discriminating between common crop types as well as MFP lands, we simplified our

 classification task by using the labels from the French Land Parcel Identification System to

 remove both uncommon classes and non-cropped and non-MFP areas. As a result, our training

 and validation datasets included six different classes, and did not include an “other crops” class.




                                                           14
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488




 See Figure 2 for a histogram of the labels in each department from our post-processed and

 simplified dataset of 52,641 parcels. Also see the top panel of Figure 1 for the spatial distribution

 of the labels in our post-processed and simplified dataset.




 Figure 2: Proportion of crop types with each label in our processed dataset of 52,641 field centroids from Occitanie,
 France. The top left barplot displays the estimated percent prevalence of each crop type across our entire dataset
 while the other 13 barplots give department specific crop label distributions.

 3.1.2 Field-level dataset from Kenya

 In Western Province, Kenya, we utilize a dataset on field boundaries for 16,964 fields during the

 long-rains season (Mar-Sep) in 2017 from Jin et al., 2019. These data span three distinct districts

 in the province (see bottom panel of Figure 1), which differ both in crop mix (Figure 3) and


                                                          15
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 climatic and soil conditions. We removed all fields that did not have a crop type label and

 further removed all 92 fields belonging to the small pilot dataset that was gathered to check

 measurement instrumentation, leaving 8,041 fields. Because the Kenya dataset had much fewer

 labeled fields than the France dataset, to increase our sample size in Kenya, instead of

 constraining our attention exclusively to the field centroids, we used Google Earth Engine to

 identify all pixels within each labeled field that were buffered by at least 5 meters away from the

 field boundary. Each buffered pixel was considered a separate training or test point in our

 classification task.




 Figure 3: Proportion of crop types with each label in our processed dataset of 39,881 buffered pixels from Western
 Province, Kenya. The top left barplot displays the estimated percent prevalence of each crop type across our entire
 dataset while the other 3 barplots give region specific crop label distributions.



                                                          16
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488




 3.2) Aggregate-level data

 3.2.1) Aggregate-level data in France

 To estimate the proportions of each label within each department of Occitanie, we used official

 department-level crop statistics (French Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Agreste, n.d.). In

 particular, we extracted information from a Land Use dataset, Cultivated Crops dataset, Grape

 Production dataset, and a Forage and Meadow dataset. For each department in Occitanie for the

 year 2017, we extracted the estimated developed area for each of our six classes using the dataset

 entries described in Table A2 in Appendix C.

 Because the data from France that was used for testing our methods included just one centroid

 pixel per parcel rather than all the pixels in each parcel, in order for PSA or FPSA to be suitable

 for application to our testing sets, we needed an estimate of the proportion of parcels of each crop

 type within each department of Occitanie. Therefore, we had to transform the information about

 the total area of each of our six crop type classes taken from official department-level crop

 statistics into department-level estimates of the proportions of parcels of each crop type. To do

 this, we divided the aggregate area of a given crop in a given department by the average area of a

 field for that crop type and that department. While these department-level field area averages

 were calculated using field-level data (from the French Land Parcel Indentification System in this

 case), which would not be available for the proposed use cases of our methods, such information

 would not be needed if we were applying a transferred classifier to all of the agricultural pixels in

 a new region. This is because if we were to apply PSA or FPSA to all of the agricultural pixels in

 a new region, prior probabilities that a given pixel is of each class will be proportional to that

 class’s total crop area in the new region, which can be estimated from government statistics

                                                   17
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 without access to field-level data. Our need to transform total crop area estimates to parcel crop

 type proportions is merely an artifact of the fact that we sought to test our classifiers on parcel

 centroids rather than on all agricultural pixels in a new region and, therefore, does not raise

 concerns about the practical applicability of our proposed methods.




 By comparing Figures A1 and A2 in Appendix C, we see that estimates of crop composition

 using aggregate-level data are quite accurate. The aggregate-based estimate was especially good

 for estimating the relative abundance of the non-MFP classes (see Appendix C for a discussion of

 why the aggregate-based estimates for the proportion of points with the MFP label were slightly

 less accurate than those for the relative abundance of the non-MFP classes).




 3.2.2) Aggregate-level data in Kenya

 At the time of this writing, aggregate-level regional data from Kenya for 2017 for the suite of

 crop types we considered were unavailable. Instead, as a stand-in, we calculated the aggregate

 distribution of the crop type labels in each region from the actual field-level labels.




 3.3) Sentinel-2 multi-temporal satellite imagery

 We used time series of optical imagery collected by the Sentinel-2 constellation to classify crop

 types, as the imagery is both publicly available and at high enough resolution (10-60 m) to map

 smallholder fields in Western Province, Kenya. In particular, we extracted the multispectral time

 series measurements from 2017 taken by Sentinel-2 of the parcel centroids in our labeled dataset

 from France and of the buffered pixels in our labeled dataset from Kenya using Google Earth


                                                   18
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 Engine. The Sentinel-2 satellites have a 5-day revisit period and capture thirteen spectral bands

 ranging from blue to short-wave infrared. While the spectral band resolutions range from 10-60

 meters, all bands were resampled to 10 meter resolution using the Google Earth Engine default of

 nearest neighbor interpolation. Temporally, all satellite observations extracted from Western

 Province, Kenya occurred on the same 50 days throughout 2017, with the time between

 observations alternating aperiodically between 5 and 10 days. Meanwhile, the days in the time

 series were not consistent throughout Occitanie in 2017, due to the region spanning multiple

 Sentinel-2 tracks; however, on average the time between two sequential observations of the same

 parcel was 4.6 days. Cloudy observations were still extracted along with outputs of cloud

 detection classifiers, so that cloudy observations could be removed in a later step as described in

 Section 3.4.2.




 The European Space Agency (ESA) distributes a top-of-atmosphere reflectance product (Level-

 1C) as well as a surface reflectance product (Level-2A) that can be derived using a toolbox

 provided by ESA. At the time of writing, ready-to-use Level-2A imagery was not available over

 Kenya in the year 2017. As a result, we used the Level-1C product in all following analyses.

 There is evidence that land cover classification using top-of-atmosphere products and surface

 reflectance products are comparable, since classification is concerned with relative spectral

 differences (Rumora et al., 2019; Rumora et al., 2020); however, since our study area spans

 multiple Sentinel-2 tracks and different atmospheric corrections, the relative spectral differences

 could still vary across the study region. This suggests that using Level-2A imagery would have

 led to higher classification accuracies than the ones observed in our results.




                                                   19
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488




 3.4) Preprocessing steps

 We implemented three pre-processing steps to turn each year-long multispectral time series into a

 70-dimensional feature vector, as described below.

 3.4.1) Green Chlorophyll Vegetation Index

 We computed the Green Chlorophyll Vegetation Index (GCVI) using the formula

 GCVI=NIR/GREEN-1. The index was designed to capture chlorophyll content in crops (Gitelson

 et al., 2005) and has been shown to be an important feature in crop classification settings (Wang

 et al., 2019).

 3.4.2) Removing points with cloud cover and measurement issues

 While extracting the Sentinel-2 data from Google Earth Engine, we also extracted the QA60

 value and the Hollstein Quality Assessment measure for each parcel centroid in Occitanie and for

 each buffered pixel in Western Province, Kenya to help us identify measurements that were

 disrupted by cloud cover or other issues. The QA60 measurement labels each satellite pass for a

 given pixel as either having no clouds, cirrus clouds or dense clouds, by using a decision tree

 with measurements from the blue, cirrus, SWIR1 and SWIR2 bands as inputs followed by

 morphology-based operations to avoid isolated pixels being labeled as no clouds, cirrus, or dense

 (European Space Agency (ESA) Technical Guides, n.d.). The Hollstein Quality Assessment

 (Hollstein et al., 2016) uses a more complex decision tree to determine whether a given pixel at a

 certain time is “clear” or if it has cloud, snow, water, or shadow cover. For each centroid in

 France and pixel in Kenya, we only retained points in the time series that were considered clear

 and cloud-free by both the QA60 value and the Hollstein Quality Assessment value. All time


                                                   20
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 series points that did not meet these criteria were removed. We used both quality assessments in

 order to be conservative, as removing a few extra points in each time series would not skew our

 fitted harmonic regression coefficients whereas retaining points with corrupted measurements

 can lead to inaccurate fitted harmonic regression coefficients.

 3.4.3) Harmonic regression

 After removing all time series points that had some indication of cloud cover or other issues, we

 transformed our multispectral time series into harmonic features that capture crop phenology

 using harmonic regression. This approach has been shown to be useful in characterizing and

 classifying crop types (Jakubauskas et al., 2002; Wang et al., 2019) and has the advantage of

 constructing consistent features despite inconsistent cloud cover. Our harmonic regressions

 reduced the time series of each spectral band (or vegetation index) into 5 harmonic features

 because we set n = 2, where n the number of different frequencies used to construct the Fourier

 basis in the regression. This choice was determined to be optimal in the crop classification setting

 of Wang et al., 2019. To implement harmonic regression, we solved the following regression

 problem for each filtered time series.

                                     2

                     𝑌𝑖,𝑗,𝑡 = 𝑐𝑖,𝑗 + ∑[𝑎𝑖,𝑗,𝑘 cos (2𝜋𝑘𝑡) + 𝑏𝑖,𝑗,𝑘 sin (2𝜋𝑘𝑡)] + 𝜀𝑖,𝑗,𝑡
                                    𝑘=1


 Where 𝑌𝑖,𝑗,𝑡 is the measurement at time t for band j in pixel i, where 𝑐𝑖,𝑗 , 𝑎𝑖,𝑗,1, 𝑏𝑖,𝑗,1 , 𝑎𝑖,𝑗,2 and

 𝑏𝑖,𝑗,2 are the 5 harmonic coefficients for pixel i and band j, and where 𝜀𝑖,𝑗,𝑡 are error terms with

 mean zero that are assumed to be independent and identically distributed with mean 0, and 𝑡 is

 the time variable in years which is set to be zero on April 1st. Note that while 𝑐𝑖,𝑗 , 𝑎𝑖,𝑗,1, 𝑏𝑖,𝑗,1,

 𝑎𝑖,𝑗,2 and 𝑏𝑖,𝑗,2 cannot be known exactly with only 50-100 measurements per pixel per band per



                                                      21
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 year, it can be estimated using linear regression onto the harmonic basis given in the above

 regression problem.

 After fitting linear regression, our estimates for the 5 coefficients for band j in pixel i,

 𝑐̂𝑖,𝑗 , 𝑎̂𝑖,𝑗,1, 𝑏̂𝑖,𝑗,1 , 𝑎̂𝑖,𝑗,2 and 𝑏̂𝑖,𝑗,2 are used as features for our classification task. Note that for each

 pixel i, we implement this harmonic regression for 13 different spectral band time series, as well

 as for a 14th GCVI time series. Since each such regression yields five features, we have

 14 × 5=70 harmonic features for each pixel. As such, we reduce each pixel’s features from a

 multispectral time series to 70 harmonic features.




 It should be noted that when a time series for a given pixel has fewer than 5 distinct time values,

 the above regression cannot be implemented. This can occasionally occur if a majority of the

 days for a pixel are deemed to not have clear measurements according to the QA60 mask or the

 Hollstein Quality Assessment. This occurred in France for 23 out of our 52,664 parcel centroids

 and in Kenya for 0 out of our 39,881 buffered pixels.




 3.5) Base classifiers used

 While the methodology in Section 2 can be applied to a broad set of classifiers, we focused on

 applying it to the Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA) classifier and the Random Forest

 classifier. LDA is a classical classification method that choses “optimal” boundaries under a

 Gaussian mixture model assumption and predicts the labels of newly sampled points based on

 which side of the boundary the points lie. The LDA classifier first fits a multivariate Gaussian

 mixture model with common covariance to the labeled points in the training data and then


                                                         22
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 computes the Bayes optimal classification rule for unlabeled data drawn from this fitted mixture

 model. Furthermore, the LDA classifier will always have linear decision boundaries in feature

 space (Hastie et al., 2009). Notable to our discussion of prior shift and feature shift adjustment is

 that the LDA classifier first calculates the proportion of labels of each class to estimate the

 Gaussian mixture weights as well as the sample mean vector of the features for each class to

 estimate the Gaussian mixture mean vectors. The PSA method (see Section 2.1) will adjust the

 trained LDA classifier so that it uses the correct mixture weights on the test set, while the FSA

 method (see Section 2.2) will adjust the classifier so that it uses the appropriate feature mean

 vectors for each class on the test set as parameter vectors for the assumed Gaussian mixture

 model. Therefore, our FPSA method is well suited for correcting an LDA classifier.

 Random Forest (Breiman, 2001) is a widely-implemented, state-of-the-art classifier that is

 popular in crop classification settings (Waldner et al., 2017; Wang et al., 2019). The Random

 Forest classifier works by aggregating the votes of trees trained on different bootstrapped

 samples of the data. To add additional randomness to the training process, when each decision

 tree split is made, only a random subset of the features is considered (Hastie et al., 2009). The

 posterior probabilities returned by a Random Forest classifier are simply the proportion of trees

 that vote for each class; unlike those of the LDA classifier, these cannot be interpreted as

 probabilities under a certain set of assumptions. The PSA method (see Section 2.1) will reweight

 the pseudo-probabilities (i.e. the proportion of trees voting for each class) on the test set by the

 ratio of that class's prevalence on the test set over its prevalence on the training set and will pick

 the class with the highest reweighted pseudo-probability as the fitted label. Meanwhile the FSA

 method (see Section 2.2) will translate the features on the testing set in order to maintain

 consistent class-wise feature mean vectors on the training and test set before the fitted Random


                                                   23
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 Forest is applied to test set points. Note that unlike for LDA, decision boundaries for a Random

 Forest do not necessarily correspond to distances in feature space from each of the class-wise

 feature means. Therefore, our FPSA method is not perfectly suited for correcting a Random

 Forest but can be useful as long as the pseudo-probabilities are not egregiously inaccurate and as

 long as the Random Forest decision boundaries are not irregular enough for mean feature shift

 adjustment to cause harm.




 3.6) The validation procedure: Train on one, test on rest

 For the transfer approaches that we consider (with the exception of the Oracle described in

 Section 3.9), we conduct the following experiment to validate its accuracy in Occitanie, France.

 We split our dataset with labeled data from Occitanie into 13 labeled datasets (one for each

 department). We then designate one of those 13 single-department datasets as the training set and

 the remaining 12 single-department datasets are considered separate test datasets. Then, for each

 of the 12 departments outside of the training department, we train a classifier on the designated

 training set that is geared towards transferring to that target department (leveraging the mean

 feature vector on the target department or the prior information about the crop type distribution

 on the target department or both), apply it to the testing dataset from that target department with

 held out labels, and store the estimated labels. After repeating this procedure for all 12

 departments outside of the training department, we compare estimated labels with the held out

 labels from the 12 testing datasets and store the results aggregated across the 12 testing

 departments in a confusion matrix. The overall accuracy as well as the class-wise producer’s

 accuracies, user’s accuracies, and F1-scores are then calculated using this confusion matrix. This

 experiment and these accuracy metrics give insight into how well a particular transfer approach

                                                   24
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 works when there is labeled data in one particular department of Occitanie and we want to

 classify crops in the remaining departments of Occitanie. To give a broader picture of the

 effectiveness of a particular transfer approach, we repeat the experiment for 11 different possible

 choices of training departments. We do not conduct the experiment with Lozère or Pyrénées

 Orientales as the designated training department because these departments each had at least one

 of the six crop types absent from the labeled dataset, making it impossible to train a classifier on

 these regions that can distinguish between all six classes; however, we still consider Lozère and

 Pyrénées Orientales when testing our classifiers.




 In Kenya, we conduct similar experiments to validate the accuracy of the different transfer

 approaches that we consider. For each experiment, instead of splitting the labeled dataset into one

 single-department training dataset and 12 single-department testing dataset, we split the labeled

 dataset into one single-region training dataset and two single-region testing datasets. For

 example, when Busia is the designated training region, we train a classifier in Busia geared for

 being transferred to Bungoma, compute the fitted labels in Bungoma, and then do the same for a

 classifier trained in Busia geared towards being transferred to Siaya. Using the held out true

 labels in Bungoma and Siaya and the fitted labels we make a confusion matrix aggregating the

 results in these two testing regions and compute various accuracy metrics for the classifier.

 We conducted these experiment in France and Kenya for multiple transfer learning approaches

 using both LDA and Random Forest as a base classifier to compare the effectiveness of different

 transfer learning approaches. The multiple transfer learning approaches that we consider are

 outlined in Table 1 and described in Sections 3.7-3.10 in more detail.




                                                   25
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 3.7) The main three transfer approaches

 Our first main approach, which we call Unadjusted Transfer (UAT entry in Table 1), was the

 naïve approach where we simply trained the classifier in one region and applied it to the target

 regions without using any prior shift or feature shift adjustments.

 Our second approach (PSA entry in Table 1) was to split up the test set by the 12 test

 departments (in France) or 2 test regions (in Kenya), and for each test department or region, we

 applied the PSA classifier described in Section 2.1. After determining the fitted labels in each of

 the testing regions using the PSA classifier, we computed and stored the confusion matrix

 aggregated all the test departments or regions.

 Our third approach (FPSA entry in Table 1) was to again split up the test set by departments or

 regions and apply the FPSA classifier described in Section 2.2. After determining the fitted labels

 in each of the testing regions using this classifier, we computed and stored the confusion matrix

 aggregated all the test departments or regions.

 Table 1: A summary of the classifier adjustment methods we considered. The first two methods listed are for
 baseline comparisons and do not address either prior shift or feature transformations between regions. The last
 method listed is unusable in practice but gives us an estimated upper bound on the accuracy of transfer learning
 methods when the given base classifier is used.



  Acronym    Depiction    Description                                    No adjustment            Validated using          Described
             in Section                                                  (Neither), prior shift   train on one, test on    in Section
             4                                                           adjustment only, or      rest procedure
             barcharts                                                   both prior and feature   described in Section
                                                                         shift adjustments        3.6?
                                                                         (Both)

  GMC        Dark Grey    Only guesses the major class. In Occitanie,    Neither                  NA (this approach        NA
             Bar          only meadow-fallow-pastoral is guessed                                  does not require
                          while in Western Province, Kenya only                                   training a classifier)
                          maize is guessed.

  UAT        Light        Transfers classifier without any adjustments   Neither                  Yes                      3.7
             Grey Bar                                                                                                      (briefly)

  PSA        Yellow       Adjusts for prior shift by reweighting the     Prior shift adjustment   Yes                      2.1, 3.7
             Bar          classifier’s posterior probabilities           only




                                                                   26
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

  FPSA      Orange       Adjusts for feature translation by correcting    Both                     Yes   2.2, 3.7
            Bar          for mean feature shifts between regions (and,
                         in addition, uses prior shift adjustment)

  SMOTE-    Solid        Artificially rebalances the training set, to     Prior shift adjustment   Yes   3.8.1
  PSA       Black line   have the same crop type composition as the       only
            (Column      test set using SMOTE
            3)

  zT-FPSA   Dashed       z-transforms the features in each region then    Both                     Yes   3.8.2
            Black line   applies a prior shift adjustment
            (Column
            4)

  zT-       Solid        Artificially rebalances the training to have     Both                     Yes   3.8.2
  SMOTE-    Black line   the same crop type composition as the test
  FPSA      (Column      set using SMOTE, then applies z-
            4)           transformation

  Oracle    Light Blue   Uses Data from each target region to train a     Neither                  No    3.9
            Bar          classifier for that target region. Accuracy is
                         computed with 10-fold cross-validation




 3.8) Alternative shift adjustment approaches

 We also compared our methods to simple approaches that may be initially considered for

 adjusting for prior shift and feature shift. First, we describe an alternative prior shift adjustment

 approach that uses data augmentation to balance the training data such that the augmented

 training data has the same crop type composition as the target region. Then, we describe two

 alternative feature shift adjustment approaches that involve centering and standardizing the

 features in each region, and one of these approaches also relies on dataset balancing. A

 comparison of our method to the alternative approaches described in this section can be found in

 Section 4 and can also be seen by looking at the solid and dashed lines in Figures 6, 9, A3 and

 A4.




                                                                    27
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 3.8.1) Alternative prior shift adjustment approaches

 A natural prior shift adjustment approach to consider is to simply sample points on the training

 region so that the sample has the same crop type distribution as the target region. The goal

 though is ultimately to train a classifier that will transfer well to multiple nearby regions, each

 with different crop type compositions, so it would be impractical to calibrate the crop type

 distribution of the collected labels from field-surveys to just one of the nearby regions. That

 being said, once the labeled data for the training set is collected, the training set data could be

 synthetically rebalanced as needed to have any desired distribution of the labels. Therefore, a

 common approach for prior shift adjustment is to first artificially rebalance the training set so that

 it has the same label distribution as the test set and to then fit a classifier to the artificially

 rebalanced dataset. There are a number of ways to artificially rebalance the training data, some of

 which have been considered for remote sensing applications (Waldner et al., 2019). Examples

 include undersampling points or oversampling points of each class in the training set until an

 artificially rebalanced training set with the same label distribution as the test set is achieved. For

 oversampling, the simplest approach is to randomly choose points to replicate. An alternative and

 popular oversampling method is the Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique (SMOTE)

 which generates new points by randomly picking a point, then picking one of the k nearest

 neighbors of that point (we used k=5 as it was the default value of the SmoteClassif function

 in the UBL R package (Branco et al., 2016), which we used for implementation), and finally

 generates a synthetic instance along the line segment connecting the two randomly selected

 points. In (Waldner et al., 2017) SMOTE was used in order to correct for prior shift in a binary

 crop classification setting and was shown to lead to significant increases in classification

 accuracy.


                                                     28
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488




 Therefore, we compared the PSA method presented in Section 2.1 to SMOTE-based prior shift

 adjustment (which we denote with the acronym SMOTE-PSA). As described in Section 3.6, after

 choosing a designated training region, we recalibrated and reapplied SMOTE-PSA to each of the

 different target testing regions separately, and then aggregated the confusion matrix and accuracy

 across the different testing regions.




 3.8.2) Alternative feature shift adjustment approaches




 Another approach for feature shift adjustment is applying a z-transformation to both the testing

 and training set. To implement a z-transformation one subtracts the mean and divides by the

 standard deviation of each feature among the points in that set. By way of comparison to our

 feature shift adjustment methodology, in each department in Occitanie and in each region in

 Western Province, Kenya we applied a z-transformation to our features. After implementing the

 z-transformations, we repeated our PSA approach described in Section 3.7, which is based on the

 prior shift adjustment method presented in Section 2.1. This approach is included in Table 1 with

 the acronym zT-FPSA.




 We did not expect the standard z-transformation to lead to good performance in settings where

 the test set label distribution is very different than the training set label distribution. This is

 because when a feature has a different mean or variance between two different regions, the


                                                    29
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 differing mean and variance can be largely driven by having different class label proportions

 rather than a systemic transformation of the features between regions. Ideally, we want to remove

 the effects of systemic feature transformations between regions but without removing variations

 in the features that are due to differing class labels (which are essential to high-performance

 classification). Therefore, we also considered using a z-transformation but only after artificially

 rebalancing the training dataset. In particular, first we used SMOTE to artificially rebalance the

 training set label distribution to match that of the testing set, and then we applied a z-

 transformation to both the artificially rebalanced training set and to the test set. Because the

 training set was rebalanced to match the label distribution on the test set, we did not use the

 method presented in Section 2.1 to adjust for label distribution shifts. As described in Section

 3.6, after choosing a designated training region, we reapplied the z-transformation and SMOTE-

 based feature shift adjustment method for each of the different target testing regions separately,

 and then aggregated confusion matrix and accuracy across the different testing regions. This

 approach is included in Table 1 with the acronym zT-SMOTE-FPSA.




 3.9) The Oracle Classifier




 In order to assess the gap between the accuracy of our transfer learning approaches and the best

 accuracy they can achieve with the same features and base classifier model, we also considered

 an Oracle classifier that is trained using the test set labels. To compute the accuracy of an Oracle

 Classifier for either LDA or Random Forest, for each region, we computed the 10-fold cross-

 validation accuracy when the training and test sets were random subsets of that region (in Kenya,

 when performing 10-fold cross-validation, the random subset assignment ensured that no plot of

                                                   30
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 land would have pixels in both the training and testing set, but this precaution was not necessary

 in France where each plot of land only had one pixel in our post-processed dataset. This

 precaution was also not necessary in Kenya when validating the transfer approaches described in

 Sections 3.7 and 3.8 because the training and testing sets had pixels from different polygons by

 default, as the training and testing pixels were from entirely different regions). The Oracle

 classifier’s accuracy for a particular “training” region was simply the weighted average of the

 cross-validated accuracies of the other regions in the dataset. These weighted averages give a

 good estimate for an upper bound on the accuracy that can be achieved by transfer learning

 adjustment approaches when training on a particular region and using a particular base classifier.

 It is important to note that such a classifier cannot be used in practice when the labels on the

 target regions are unavailable, and because it would not be used in practice, it is the only

 classifier whose accuracy we did not assess using the validation procedure presented in Section

 3.6.




 4) Results

 In Sections 4.1-4.4 we describe in detail our data visualizations and results from Occitanie,

 France in order to familiarize the reader with the analyses and the presentation of their results. In

 Section 4.5 we show and briefly discuss our results from Western Province, Kenya.

 4.1) Data visualizations




 We first visualize an example of feature shift between regions to demonstrate that the same crop

 type can have different average profiles in different regions. Figure 4 compares the time series of


                                                   31
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 the GCVI values averaged over all corn, sunflower, winter barley and winter wheat data points in

 Aude and in Tarn. To smooth the time series, GCVI averages were taken over 15-day bins after

 excluding observations with cloud cover or other quality issues (see Section 3.4.2). We can see

 from Figure 4 that crops tend to have a larger peak GCVI value in Tarn than they do in Aude, as

 well as larger GCVI values outside of the growing season. The particular variation in mean

 GCVI time series observed between Aude and Tarn is consistent with an additive signal

 transformation, which would correspond to a translation of our harmonic features. Appendix D

 defines the Fixed Signal Addition transformation and describes how this transformation affects

 the harmonic features.




 Figure 4: Plots of the GCVI time series averaged over all centroid pixels in Aude versus in Tarn for corn, sunflower,
 winter barley, and winter wheat. Sentinel-2 acquisitions that were not deemed clear were excluded. We binned time

                                                          32
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 into 15-day chunks before plotting averages over all clear observations within each bin. There are no gaps in any of
 the plotted time series, indicating that in both Aude and Tarn, for each plotted crop type, there is at least one parcel
 centroid with a clear observation in each 15-day bin. The dotted lines give 95% confidence intervals for the mean
 GCVI value, although temporal correlations are ignored when defining these confidence intervals (so we should not
 expect 95% coverage across the time series). It is clear from these plots that for the same crop type, GCVI values in
 Tarn tend to be higher than those in Aude.


 To examine the shifts in the entire 70-dimensional feature space, we use t-stochastic neighbor

 embedding (van der Maaten and Hinton, 2008) to visualize the points in a two-dimensional

 representation (Figure 5). T-stochastic neighbor embedding (t-SNE) preserves neighborhoods, so

 points that are nearby in the 70-dimensional harmonic feature space appear nearby in the two-

 dimensional t-SNE representation (although the converse is not necessarily true). The t-SNE

 plots for the Occitanie dataset suggest that six classes could be reasonably well separated,

 making classifiers with high accuracies possible. One can also see that the distributions of t-SNE

 coordinates for a given crop type differ slightly between regions. This is clearest for the MFP

 class. Note that when running the t-SNE algorithm we used a scalar multiple of the first two

 principal component scores as our initial embedding rather than the default random initialization

 (see Kobak and Berens, 2019 for a description of this technique and a discussion of its

 advantages).




                                                            33
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488




 Figure 5: T-SNE plots of the harmonic features in Occitanie, France. The top left panel shows the t-SNE embedding
 of all 52,641 the points within Occitanie. The remaining panels show only the points within a particular department.
 Points that are near each other in the 70-dimensional harmonic feature space will appear close to each other in these
 t-SNE plots; however, points that are close to each other in these t-SNE plots are not guaranteed to be close to each
 other in the 70-dimensional feature space. This means that even though these plots may make it seem that
 distinguishing between winter barley and winter wheat would be difficult, it is possible that winter barley and winter
 wheat are actually well separated in our 70-dimensional harmonic feature space.




 4.2) Classification results in Occitanie, France

 4.2.1) With Linear Discriminant Analysis

 The results for the 11 experiments in France, following the testing procedure described in Section

 3.6, are plotted in Figure 6 (left panel). For reference we added the overall accuracy of the trivial

 classifier that just guesses the most common class (meadow-fallow-pastoral). In these


                                                          34
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 experiments, our base classifier was LDA. In each of the 11 experiments, we found that using the

 FPSA approach led to an increase in overall accuracy ranging from 0.003 to 0.097 (mean=0.034)

 when compared to the UAT approach. Further, in the 11 experiments, the FPSA approach led to

 an increase in overall accuracy ranging from -0.002 to 0.083 (mean=0.020) when compared to

 the PSA approach.




                                                   35
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488




 Figure 6: Barplots for the overall accuracy of the LDA (left) and Random Forest (right) classifiers when using each
 of the three main transfer learning approaches described (UAT, PSA, and FPSA). The barplots also show the overall
 accuracy when using the baseline classifier of guessing the major class. The light blue bars give the accuracy of the
 Oracle classifier, which is unusable in practice but gives us an estimated upper bound on the accuracy of transfer
 learning methods when the given base classifier is used. The barplot titles give the name of the designated training
 department in Occitanie, France, and the overall accuracies are calculated by applying the classifier to the 12
 remaining test departments in Occitanie, France. On the barplots, we append thin dotted lines and solid lines that
 show the overall accuracy for alternative prior shift and feature shift adjustment methods. The solid line on the third

                                                           36
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 bar of each barplot represents the overall accuracy of SMOTE-PSA, an alternative to the PSA approach of Section
 2.1. On the fourth bar, the dotted line shows the accuracy of zT-FPSA and the solid line shows the accuracy of zT-
 SMOTE-PSA, which are both alternative feature and prior shift adjustment approaches to our FPSA method
 presented in Section 2.2. Note that SMOTE with parameter k=5 could not be implemented when Ariège was the
 training set because Ariège only had 3 instances of wine grape.




 Because overall accuracy does not give a complete picture of how well a classifier is working

 and can be largely driven by success of the classifier in classifying the most common class, we

 also use the confusion matrices from our experiments to look at other accuracy metrics. One

 metric we look at is the arithmetic mean of the class-wise F1-scores. The metric is described in

 Appendix E, and Figure A3 (left panel) shows the arithmetic mean of the class-wise F1-scores in

 each of our 11 different experiments when LDA is the base classifier. In each of the 11

 experiments, we found that using the FPSA approach led to an increase in the macro-averaged

 F1-score ranging from 0.009 to 0.159 (mean=0.063) when compared to the UAT approach while

 the FPSA approach led to an increase in macro-averaged F1-score ranging from -0.001 to 0.114

 (mean=0.026) when compared to the PSA approach.




 We also look at the producer’s and user’s accuracies for the classifiers in our experiment. In

 particular, for each of the three main transfer learning approaches described (UAT, PSA, and

 FPSA) and for each of the six crop type classes in Occitanie, we look at the producer’s accuracy

 and the user’s accuracy averaged across the 11 experiments (where recall each experiment

 corresponds to a different choice of training region). These producer’s accuracies and user’s

 accuracies are presented in Table 2A, and they demonstrate the advantage of using FPSA instead

 of UAT or PSA.




                                                         37
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 Table 2A: Producer’s and user’s accuracies for LDA in France. Each entry is the producer’s or user’s accuracy
 averaged over the 11 experiments, where one experiment involves training the classifier on only one department and
 transferring the trained classifier to the remaining 12 departments. The table compares the averaged producer’s and
 user’s accuracies for the Unadjusted Transfer (UAT) classifier, the Prior Shift Adjusted (PSA) classifier, and the
 Feature and Prior Shift Adjusted (FPSA) classifier. The bold numbers indicate which of the three classifiers has the
 highest producer’s or user’s accuracy for that particular crop type class. We can see from the table that FPSA tends
 to have the highest class-wise producer’s accuracies and the highest class-wise user’s accuracy.

                                           Producer’s Accuracies                User’s Accuracies
                                           UAT         PSA          FPSA        UAT        PSA          FPSA
  Corn                                     0.87        0.87         0.87        0.85       0.89         0.90
  Meadow-Fallow-Pastoral                   0.93        0.92         0.95        0.95       0.96         0.95
  Sunflower                                0.85        0.86         0.85        0.69       0.76         0.84
  Wine Grapes                              0.71        0.83         0.88        0.80       0.79         0.83
  Winter Barley                            0.62        0.65         0.65        0.46       0.50         0.52
  Winter Wheat                             0.71        0.71         0.70        0.78       0.82         0.86
 Table 2B: Producer’s and user’s accuracies for Random Forest in France. This table was constructed in the same
 way as Table 2A, with the one difference being that the producer’s and user’s accuracies shown are for the case
 where Random Forest is the base classifier rather than LDA.

                                           Producer’s Accuracies                User’s Accuracies
                                           UAT          PSA         FPSA        UAT         PSA         FPSA
  Corn                                     0.59         0.67        0.69        0.77        0.78        0.77
  Meadow-Fallow-Pastoral                   0.97         0.88        0.91        0.83        0.92        0.91
  Sunflower                                0.68         0.75        0.73        0.65        0.75        0.77
  Wine Grapes                              0.36         0.88        0.86        0.60        0.71        0.73
  Winter Barley                            0.17         0.17        0.17        0.50        0.57        0.61
  Winter Wheat                             0.69         0.69        0.70        0.76        0.74        0.78




 4.2.2) With Random Forest

 We also repeated the 11 experiments for the Occitanie dataset following the testing procedure

 described in Section 3.6, but instead of training LDA classifiers on our designated training

 region, we trained Random Forest classifiers. The overall accuracies are shown in Figure 6 (right


                                                         38
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 panel) and the arithmetic means of the class-wise F1-scores are shown in Figure A3 (right panel).

 In our 11 experiments, we found that using the FPSA approach led to an increase in overall

 accuracy ranging from 0.001 to 0.127 (mean=0.049) when compared to the UAT approach.

 Further, in the 11 experiments, the FPSA classifier led to an increase in overall accuracy ranging

 from -0.005 to 0.053 (mean=0.017) when compared to the PSA classifier. In each of the 11

 experiments, we also found that using the FPSA approach led to an increase in the macro-

 averaged F1-score ranging from -0.009 to 0.254 (mean=0.128) when compared to the UAT

 approach while the FPSA approach led to an increase in macro-averaged F1-score ranging from -

 0.004 to 0.051 (mean=0.015) when compared to the PSA approach. The class-wise producer’s

 and user’s accuracies averaged across the 11 experiments are presented in Table 2B and

 demonstrate the advantage of using FPSA instead of UAT or PSA.




 4.3) Comparison of results with other feature and prior shift adjustment approaches




 We first compare the prior shift adjustment (PSA) method presented in Section 2.1 to a SMOTE-

 based prior shift adjustment (SMOTE-PSA) method, which was first introduced in (Waldner et

 al., 2017) for binary crop classification tasks. We only describe numerical summaries of the

 comparison in the setting where LDA is the base classifier and where our accuracy metric is

 overall accuracy, although the comparison for Random Forest can be seen in Figure 6 and a

 comparison for macro F1-scores can be seen in Figure A3. From comparing the yellow bar to the

 solid black line in the third column of each barplot in Figure 6 (top panel), it can be seen that the

 method presented in Section 2.1 performs slightly better than the SMOTE-PSA method on our

 Occitanie dataset. We note that the SMOTE-PSA method could not be implemented for all

                                                   39
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 departments with the default setting k=5, because Ariège only had 3 instances of wine grape. In

 the 10 remaining experiments in Occitanie, using the PSA method presented in Section 2.1

 instead of the SMOTE-PSA method led to improvements in overall accuracy ranging from 0.000

 to 0.022 (mean=0.014). This is understandable given that the PSA method in Section 2.1 does not

 rely on artificially sampling new points of under-represented crop types on the training set, as

 such oversampling can be unstable if there are very few instances of a particular crop type on the

 training set. It is also worth noting that the PSA method is computationally more efficient and

 easier to implement than SMOTE-PSA in multiclass classification tasks.




 In Figure 6, we also compare the FPSA method presented in Section 2.2 to the two z-

 transformation based feature shift adjustment methods described in Section 3.8.2. Again, we only

 describe the comparison in the setting where LDA is the base classifier and where our accuracy

 metric is overall accuracy. As expected, naïvely applying z-transformations to each region

 without accounting for the differences in training and test set label distributions can be

 problematic, even when we apply a Prior Shift Adjusted classifier to the z-transformed data. In

 particular, we see that for the 11 experiments in Occitanie, using our FPSA approach instead of

 the zT-FPSA approach led to improvements in overall accuracy ranging from 0.046 to 0.241

 (mean=0.093). Combining SMOTE with a z-transformation performs better, but it does not

 consistently perform better than the unadjusted classifier, and our FPSA approach still performs

 much better than this approach. In particular, we observed that for the ten experiments in

 Occitanie (excluding Ariège as a training region), using our FPSA method instead of zT-

 SMOTE-FPSA led to improvements in overall accuracy ranging from 0.012 to 0.101

 (mean=0.035). Meanwhile, our FPSA method consistently leads to higher overall accuracy than


                                                   40
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 the unadjusted classifier in the examples we looked at for LDA as mentioned in Section 4.2.1.




 4.4) Comparison of results with the Oracle Classifier

 The gap between the overall accuracy of the unusable Oracle Classifier and our FPSA method

 ranged from 0.013 to 0.086 (mean=0.043) for LDA and from 0.038 to 0.103 (mean=0.070) for

 Random Forest for our 11 experiments in Occitanie. These gaps can be visualized by comparing

 the light blue bars with the orange bars in Figure 6.




 4.5) Results in Western Province, Kenya

 While our results in France can be helpful for checking the efficacy of our methodology on a

 large dataset, we now turn our attention to our results from Kenya, a setting with scarce field-

 level crop labels constrained to small geographical regions where such methodology is more

 likely to be used. We first visualize an example of feature shift in Kenya, where it appears that in

 Bungoma the GCVI time series tends to have a higher peak than that in Siaya for the crops

 banana, beans, groundnut and cassava (Figure 7). We also visualize the harmonic features in

 Kenya in two dimensions using t-SNE (Figure 8). T-SNE does not lead to a clear separation

 between classes which is a sign that attaining a high classification accuracy may be difficult on

 this dataset. However, if points are near each other in the t-SNE representation, they need not be

 near each other in the higher dimensional feature space, meaning it still may be possible to build

 a classifier with high classification accuracy for this dataset, despite t-SNE failing to separate the

 classes well.




                                                   41
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488




 Figure 7: Plots of the GCVI time series averaged over all centroid pixels in Bungoma versus in Siaya for banana,
 beans, groundnut, and maize. Sentinel-2 acquisitions that were not deemed clear were excluded. We binned time into
 15-day chunks before plotting averages over all clear observations within each bin. When there are no pixels that are
 deemed clear within a 15-day period, the plotted time series has a gap (for example, no gaps occur in the time series
 for more common crops such as maize, but such gaps can be seen in both the banana and groundnut time series in
 Siaya because there are so few pixels of these crop types in Siaya within our labeled dataset). The dotted lines give
 95% confidence intervals for the mean GCVI value, although temporal correlations are ignored when defining these
 confidence intervals (so we should not expect 95% coverage across the time series). The abrupt decrease in the mean
 GCVI time series in the spring is very likely due to cloud cover that was not detected by either the QA60 measure or
 the Hollstein Quality Assessment measure. The plots seem to indicate that for each crop, GCVI values in Bungoma
 tend to attain a higher peak than those in Siaya.




                                                          42
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488




 Figure 8: Visualization of all 39,553 data points (harmonic features for buffered pixels, with repeat data points
 removed) in Kenya using t-SNE. The different crop types are not well separated in their t-SNE representation.




 The results for the three experiments in Western Province, Kenya following the testing procedure

 described in Section 3.6, are plotted in Figure 9. For reference we also include the accuracy of

 the classifier that simply guesses the most common class (maize). We found that when using

 LDA as a base classifier, the overall accuracy (macro-averaged F1-score) improvements due to

 using the FPSA approach instead of the UAT approach were 0.177 (0.055), 0.025 (0.044), and

 0.302 (0.115) for training on Bungoma, Busia, and Siaya respectively. The improvements in

 overall accuracy (macro-averaged F1-score) due to using the FPSA approach instead of the PSA

 approach were 0.156 (0.034), 0.013 (0.029), and 0.171 (0.061) for training on these three regions.


                                                           43
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 When using Random Forest as a base classifier, the overall accuracy (macro-averaged F1-score)

 improvements due to using the FPSA approach instead of the UAT approach were 0.021 (0.021),

 0.133 (0.100), and 0.069 (0.054) for training on Bungoma, Busia, and Siaya respectively. The

 improvements in overall accuracy (macro-averaged F1-score) due to using the FPSA approach

 instead of the PSA approach were 0.026 (-0.005), 0.048 (0.027), and 0.038 (-0.004) for training

 on these three regions.

 Figure 9 also depicts the accuracies of SMOTE-PSA, zT-FPSA, and zT-SMOTE-FPSA, as well

 as the accuracy of the Oracle Classifier in Kenya. Figure A4 depicts the arithmetic means of the

 class-wise F1-scores while Tables 3A and 3B present the class-wise producer’s and user’s

 accuracies for UAT, PSA, and FPSA classifiers.




                                                   44
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 Figure 9: Barplots for the overall accuracy of the LDA (left) and Random Forest (right) classifiers when using each
 of the three main transfer learning approaches described (UAT, PSA, and FPSA). The barplots also show the overall
 accuracy when using the baseline classifier of guessing the major class. The light blue bars give the accuracy of the
 Oracle classifier. The barplot titles give the name of the designated training region in Western Province, Kenya, and
 the overall accuracies are calculated by checking their accuracy on the 2 remaining test regions. The thin dotted lines
 and solid lines show the overall accuracy for alternative prior shift and feature shift adjustment methods. The solid
 line on the third bar of each barplot represents the overall accuracy of SMOTE-PSA. On the fourth bar, the dotted
 line shows the accuracy of zT-FPSA and the solid line shows the accuracy of zT-SMOTE-PSA. Note that when
 Bungoma was the training set, we set the SMOTE parameter to be k=4 rather than k=5, because Bungoma only had
 5 labeled pixels of cassava.


 Table 3A: Producer’s and user’s accuracies for LDA in Kenya. Each entry is the producer’s or user’s accuracy for a
 particular crop type class when the classifier is trained on one region and validated on the remaining two regions.
 The table compares the producer’s and user’s accuracies for the Unadjusted Transfer (UAT) classifier, the Prior Shift
 Adjusted (PSA) classifier, and the Feature and Prior Shift Adjusted (FPSA) classifier. The bold numbers indicate
 which of the three classifiers has the highest producer’s or user’s accuracy for that particular crop type class and
 training region.
                   Classifier trained in Bungoma                       Classifier trained in Busia                        Classifier trained in Siaya
                   Accuracy calculated by testing on Busia and         Accuracy calculated by testing on Bungoma          Accuracy calculated by testing on Bungoma
                   Siaya                                               and Siaya                                          and Busia
                   Producer’s Accuracies    User’s Accuracies          Producer’s Accuracies   User’s Accuracies          Producer’s Accuracies   User’s Accuracies
                   UAT     PSA      FPSA    UAT      PSA        FPSA   UAT     PSA      FPSA   UAT      PSA        FPSA   UAT     PSA      FPSA   UAT      PSA        FPSA
  Banana           0.19    0.09     0.17    0.07     0.07       0.06   0.03    0.03     0.04   0.11     0.09       0.06   0.14    0.22     0.11   0.09     0.07       0.10
  Beans            0.23    0.11     0.06    0.05     0.06       0.08   0.00    0.00     0.05   0.00     0.00       0.06   0.06    0.08     0.04   0.01     0.02       0.05
  Cassava          0.15    0.37     0.23    0.33     0.21       0.28   0.43    0.32     0.29   0.27     0.47       0.52   0.16    0.28     0.40   0.65     0.58       0.55
  Groundnut        0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    0.01     0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00
  Maize            0.43    0.42     0.77    0.72     0.76       0.70   0.93    0.89     0.83   0.61     0.64       0.70   0.35    0.55     0.80   0.71     0.70       0.69
  Non-Crop         0.48    0.47     0.48    0.54     0.56       0.61   0.39    0.40     0.54   0.82     0.82       0.64   0.76    0.68     0.48   0.22     0.26       0.45
  Other            0.10    0.26     0.14    0.13     0.16       0.14   0.03    0.04     0.09   0.09     0.10       0.13   0.09    0.04     0.06   0.02     0.02       0.07
  Sugar Cane       0.54    0.35     0.42    0.33     0.63       0.62   0.51    0.65     0.73   0.86     0.81       0.79   0.13    0.25     0.51   0.91     0.86       0.70
  Sweet Potatoes   0.58    0.44     0.27    0.06     0.06       0.20   0.15    0.15     0.25   0.71     0.68       0.37   0.33    0.34     0.32   0.13     0.12       0.14




 Table 3B: Producer’s and user’s accuracies for Random Forest in Kenya. This table was constructed in the same
 way as Table 3A, with the one difference being that the producer’s and user’s accuracies shown are for the case
 where Random Forest is the base classifier rather than LDA.
                   Classifier Trained in Bungoma                       Classifier Trained in Busia                        Classifier Trained in Siaya
                   Accuracy calculated by testing on Busia and         Accuracy calculated by testing on Bungoma          Accuracy calculated by testing on Bungoma
                   Siaya                                               and Siaya                                          and Busia
                   Producer’s Accuracies    User’s Accuracies          Producer’s Accuracies   User’s Accuracies          Producer’s Accuracies   User’s Accuracies
                   UAT     PSA      FPSA    UAT      PSA        FPSA   UAT     PSA      FPSA   UAT      PSA        FPSA   UAT     PSA      FPSA   UAT      PSA        FPSA
  Banana           0.04    0.00     0.00    0.05     0.00       0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.06       0.04   0.00    0.01     0.00   1.00     0.15       0.33
  Beans            0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00
  Cassava          0.00    0.33     0.22    0.00     0.18       0.14   0.17    0.00     0.00   0.05     0.00       0.33   0.00    0.43     0.24   0.00     0.22       0.36
  Groundnut        0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00     0.00       0.00
  Maize            0.72    0.69     0.76    0.69     0.69       0.67   0.98    0.89     0.85   0.52     0.58       0.66   0.81    0.61     0.77   0.63     0.72       0.65
  Non-Crop         0.47    0.44     0.48    0.50     0.48       0.52   0.20    0.41     0.58   0.73     0.73       0.54   0.92    0.13     0.10   0.24     0.57       0.66
  Other            0.00    0.13     0.10    0.09     0.11       0.14   0.00    0.06     0.06   0.09     0.18       0.17   0.03    0.00     0.00   0.03     0.00       0.00
  Sugar Cane       0.79    0.13     0.11    0.14     0.57       0.58   0.08    0.51     0.71   0.96     0.66       0.74   0.00    0.73     0.61   1.00     0.39       0.40
  Sweet Potatoes   0.02    0.01     0.00    0.32     0.14       0.00   0.01    0.00     0.01   0.57     0.00       0.09   0.05    0.03     0.02   0.35     0.17       0.28




 The results of Tables 3A and 3B show that in Kenya, neither UAT, PSA, nor FPSA consistently

 performs the best across every crop type; however, FPSA still performs the best when

 considering the overall accuracy and when considering the macro-averaged F1-score. Tables 3A
                                                                                      45
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 and 3B also highlight that PSA and FPSA account for the crop type distributions in the target

 regions. For example, consider the scenario when the classifiers are trained in Bungoma (left

 columns in Tables 3A and 3B). Bungoma has much larger percentage of sugar cane and a much

 smaller percentage of cassava than the other two regions (see Figure 3). As a result, we observe

 that when training in Bungoma, the UAT classifier guesses sugar cane more frequently than the

 PSA and FPSA classifiers guess sugar cane, and conversely, the UAT classifier guesses cassava

 less frequently than the PSA and FPSA classifiers guess cassava.

 5) Discussion

 In Section 5.1 we provide an overview of the results. In Sections 5.2 we discuss the suitability of

 the FPSA method to the setting where LDA is the base classifier, while in Section 5.3 we discuss

 its suitability when Random Forest or another non-LDA classifier is the base classifier,

 suggesting directions for future research to improve upon the FPSA method. In Section 5.4 we

 discuss the benefits of picking a region with diverse crop types to train on if the option is

 available.

 5.1) Overview of Results

 Our results indicate a clear benefit of using FPSA over the naïve unadjusted classifier (UAT) in

 both France and in Kenya. In France, the benefit of FPSA over UAT was clearly demonstrated

 when looking at either overall accuracy, macro-averaged class-wise F1-scores, producer’s

 accuracies or user’s accuracies. The benefits of using FPSA rather than UAT varied based on the

 choice of training department. For example, when Tarn was the training region, the FPSA

 classifier did not demonstrate a substantial benefit over the UAT classifier. Meanwhile, when the

 training region was Hautes Pyrénées, FPSA led to a substantial improvement over UAT. This

 observation can be partially explained by two reasons. First, the distribution of the crop types in

                                                   46
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 Tarn is very similar to that of Occitanie as a whole, whereas the distribution of the crop types in

 Hautes Pyrénées is not so similar to that of Occitanie, implying that prior shift adjustments would

 be much more substantial and beneficial for classifiers trained in the latter region. Second, Tarn

 is geographically in the center of Occitanie, whereas Hautes Pyrénées is in the southwest corner

 of the region, implying that feature shift adjustments for classifiers trained in the latter

 department would be much more substantial. On a similar note, we observed that the overall

 accuracies varied (when using FSPA) based on the training department. In particular, when the

 classifier was trained in regions with one main class and few instances of the remaining classes,

 such as Aveyron, the overall accuracy tended to be lower. This phenomenon is investigated more

 thoroughly and explained in Section 5.4.

 The overall accuracy improvements of using FPSA rather than UAT tended to be particularly

 large in Kenya, and much larger than those in France. This is largely driven by the fact that in

 France the baseline UAT classifier already performed quite well, so there was less room for

 feature and prior shift methods to confer improvements in terms of overall accuracy. It should be

 noted that large obstacles still exist for creating highly accurate crop type maps in Kenya with the

 available data. Even with LDA as a base classifier our FPSA method led to overall accuracies in

 the 0.55 to 0.65 range in Kenya, and when Bungoma was the training region, the FPSA classifier

 was not much more accurate than the approach of always guessing the major class.




 The lower accuracies in Kenya are due to a few factors that make our classification task in Kenya

 more difficult. First, intercropping is common practice in Kenya making crop classification in

 Kenya more difficult. Second, we use Sentinel-2 Level-1C cloud masks products, which have

 been observed to preform worse in non-Mediterranean climates (Coluzzi et al., 2018). Third, in

                                                   47
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 Western Kenya there is high climatic variability even within small geographic regions such as the

 Western Province. Fourth, we included “other” crops and non-cropped land in our classification

 task in Kenya. The fact that in Kenya we often observed guessing the major class to lead to

 higher overall accuracy than UAT or even PSA is a manifestation of the difficulty of the

 Sentinel-2-based classification task in Kenya. FPSA, however, still generally led to better overall

 accuracy than guessing the major class. It is also interesting to note that when using UAT in

 Kenya, LDA tended to preform worse than Random Forest, whereas LDA with FPSA tended to

 perform better than Random Forest with UAT or FPSA, suggesting that the LDA base classifier

 should not be ruled out simply because it has low accuracy when using UAT.

 In addition to observing that FPSA tended to confer larger benefits over UAT when LDA, rather

 than Random Forest, was the base classifier, there are some other notable differences between

 our results for these two base classifiers. We also found that the advantage of using FPSA over

 other transfer approaches holds consistently when LDA is the base classifier. It also typically, but

 less consistently, holds when Random Forest is the base classifier. Further, the gap between the

 FPSA and the Oracle accuracies tended to be much larger for Random Forest. We provide a

 possible explanation for these phenomena in Sections 5.2 and 5.3. It should also be noted that

 the large gaps between the Oracle accuracies and FPSA accuracies suggest that it might be

 possible to develop transfer learning method approaches that preform substantially better than

 FPSA.

 5.2) Prior and Feature Shift Adjustment for Linear Discriminant Analysis

 Based on the results, the FPSA methodology presented in Section 2 performs well relative to the

 baseline and alternative approaches that we looked at for LDA. It always performed better than

 the six other approaches, with the exception that in 3 of the 11 experiments in Occitanie the

                                                   48
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 overall accuracy of our FPSA method was between 0.000 and 0.002 lower than that for the PSA

 method.




 LDA is a base classifier that is particularly well suited for our methodology for two reasons.

 First, the posterior probabilities returned by the classifier have a probabilistic interpretation: they

 are the probabilities of being in each class conditional on the features for a fitted multivariate

 Gaussian mixture model with common covariance. Therefore, if the data approximately follows a

 multivariate Gaussian mixture model with common covariance, and if the training set is large

 enough, LDA will return very accurate posterior probabilities. Accurate posterior probabilities

 are beneficial to the PSA classifier we presented in Section 2.1 because the PSA classifier uses

 reweighted versions of these posterior probabilities to fit labels on the test set. Second, the

 feature means for each class are critical components of an LDA classifier. Recall that when

 applying an LDA classifier to a test point, for each class we must calculate the density at that

 point of a multivariate Gaussian with mean vector equal to the mean feature vector for that class.

 Therefore, if there is a shift in the feature means for each class between regions, it can be quite

 detrimental to the LDA classifier. Our methodology in Section 2.2 removes shifts in the feature

 means for each class between regions under the assumption that the feature mean shifts for each

 crop type is the same.




 5.3) Prior and Feature Shift Adjustment for non-LDA classifiers




                                                   49
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 The prior shift adjustment method presented in Section 2.1 should work well for any choice of

 classifier, while the feature shift adjustment method developed in Section 2.2 can be helpful for

 certain classifiers. Our results for Random Forest suggest that FPSA is helpful compared to UAT,

 but they also suggest that FPSA can be improved upon and that it is worth researching robust

 alternatives to FPSA for non-LDA classifiers. For example, in Western Kenya, when the training

 set is from Bungoma, Kenya, the FPSA method dominates the SMOTE-based methods for LDA

 but not for Random Forest. In addition, the gap between the FPSA accuracies and the Oracle

 accuracy tended to be larger for Random Forest than for LDA.




 The “posterior probabilities” of being in each class given the features returned by a Random

 Forest are based on the proportion of trees that vote for each class and therefore have no

 probabilistic motivation. In comparison, for LDA, the posterior probabilities returned by the

 classifier have a probabilistic interpretation as described in Sections 3.5 and 5.1. Still, even if the

 posterior probabilities for a Random Forest are more poorly calibrated than those for LDA, the

 method in Section 2.1 will reweight these somewhat inaccurate probabilities by the proper factor,

 which often leads to classification improvements for Random Forest.




 If the true feature transformation between regions is simply a translation, then our method

 presented in Section 2.2 directly removes the issues associated with feature shift regardless of the

 base classifier being used. In the more realistic scenario, when the feature transformation

 between regions is not exactly a translation, our FSA and FPSA methods can help for any type of

 classifier, although it is understandable that such methods might confer less benefit when using a

 non-LDA base classifier. Recall that our method presented in Section 2.2 adjusts the features on

                                                   50
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 the testing set so that the class-wise feature means for the training and test set are consistent.

 Because LDA assigns a label to a training point by picking the class with the nearest class-wise

 mean feature vector (in terms of Mahalanobis distance), having consistent class-wise feature

 means on the training set and test set is critical for LDA classification. For most non-LDA

 classifiers, including Random Forests, the class-wise feature means are not directly used in

 assigning a fitted class label, so having consistent class-wise feature means between the training

 and test set is helpful, but not necessarily the most importing thing to ensure.




 As deep learning methods are becoming more widely used for crop classification, future work

 should explore how effective our proposed PSA and FPSA methods are when the base classifier

 is a Neural Network. Both PSA and FPSA can easily be applied post-hoc when a Neural Network

 is trained for crop classification. When the feature space involves raw multispectral time series

 inputs rather than the harmonic features considered in this paper, the mean feature shift would be

 computed using the method described in Section 2.2 with each date and spectral band pair being

 a unique entry in the feature vector. In addition, two practical considerations for using PSA or

 FPSA are worth mentioning. First, one should ascertain that the original Neural Network

 classifier is trained with a cross-entropy loss so that the posterior probabilities returned by the

 classifier have the potential to be well calibrated. Second, when estimating the mean feature shift

 of a raw multispectral time series, cloudy days should be removed. Similar to our observations

 for Random Forest, we anticipate that FPSA will lead to accuracy improvements for Neural

 Networks transferred across regions because the method will still reweight the estimated

 posterior probabilities to favor guessing prevalent classes in the target region and will remove

 mean feature shifts; however, its efficacy should be checked empirically in future work because


                                                   51
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 the posterior probabilities in Neural Networks can be poorly calibrated and because Neural

 Networks apply many nonlinear transformations to the features.




 In summary, our FSA and FPSA methods correct for feature mean shifts, which are the most

 important thing to correct for in a classifier like LDA. Feature mean shift is also the only thing

 that needs to be corrected if the systemic feature transformation between regions is simply a

 translation. However, for different classifiers such as Random Forests or Neural Networks, in

 order to have a reliable and highly beneficial feature transformation adjustment, we may need to

 correct for feature transformations other than mean shift. Therefore, a future direction would be

 to anticipate the types of systemic feature transformations that occur between regions. For

 example, in our setting of crop classification using harmonic regression features, we might

 expect the growing season to shift by a few days or weeks between different regions leading to a

 phase shift in the time series. A phase shift would correspond to a rotation of each pair of

 harmonic features corresponding to the same frequency and spectral band by an angle

 proportional to the product of the phase shift and the frequency (see Appendix D for a

 mathematical justification of this claim). Alternatively, if the amplitude of the time series

 changes between regions, this would lead to a translation and possibly a scaling of the harmonic

 features. It is less clear how to characterize the effect of shrunken or expanded growing seasons

 on the harmonic features, although these shifts are also likely to occur between regions (see

 Appendix D for a more detailed discussion and justification of these points). Knowing the type of

 systemic feature transformations that occur between regions can motivate improved feature shift

 methodologies that go beyond correcting for feature mean shift.




                                                   52
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 5.4) Selecting the optimal training region

 A relevant question for crop type mapping is where to focus collection of field-level data among

 several possible regions when resources are limited. All other factors being equal, one would

 want to choose the region that would lead to highest overall accuracy in nearby regions.

 Aggregate-level data can be useful in gauging which region, if chosen as the training region,

 would lead to higher overall accuracy. In particular, we hypothesize that a high crop-diversity

 region would be ideal to label because a) it is best to train a classifier on data where there are

 many examples of each crop type that appears frequently in the target regions and b) after prior

 shift adjustments, it is much more difficult to correctly guess the labels in a high diversity region

 (so including a high diversity region in the training set will remove that region from the list of

 unlabeled regions). To test this, in Figure 10 we plot the Shannon Entropy (a crop diversity

 measure used in Wang et al., 2019) of the training set versus the test set accuracy in France to see

 if this pattern holds. Shannon Entropy is given by – ∑ 𝜋𝑘 log (𝜋𝑘 ) where 𝜋𝑘 is the proportion of

 crop type 𝑘 on the training set. Shannon Entropy is a reasonable diversity measure, because it

 obtains its minimum possible value of 0 whenever at least one crop type is not present, and it is

 maximized when each crop type has the same prevalence. Indeed, we observe that diversity of

 the training set was correlated with overall accuracy after adjustments in our 11 experiments in

 France. Further, we looked at accuracies on different regions making up the test set and found

 that the accuracy tended to be higher on less diverse regions within the test set. This is consistent

 with our hypothesis that for two reasons (sufficient training labels for each class and less diverse

 testing regions) it is beneficial to train on a more diverse region.




                                                   53
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 It is important to note that the benefits conferred by training on a diverse region can easily fail to

 hold if we ultimately neglect to use a classifier with prior shift adjustments. For example,

 imagine you have one diverse department with a small proportion of corn and winter barley and

 that the remaining nearby departments are nearly 50% corn and nearly 50% winter barley. If

 ultimately one neglects to use a classifier with prior shift adjustments, then it would be better to

 just train on one of the more representative departments (with about 50% corn and 50% winter

 barely) than to train on the diverse department. On the other hand, if we actually use a classifier

 with prior shift adjustments (such as FPSA), then it would be better to collect labels for training

 on the diverse department as the prior shift adjustments would allow it to successfully transfer to

 regions with much more corn and winter barley, while having the actual labels on the diverse

 department would mitigate the need to confront the more difficult task of guessing crop type

 labels on a diverse region with a classifier trained in a nearby region. In summary, assuming all

 other cost factors are equal, it would be beneficial to collect labels for training a crop classifier on

 a region with high crop type diversity if prior shift adjustment is used.




                                                   54
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488




 Figure 10: Diversity of the training region versus overall accuracy after applying our FPSA methodology to an LDA
 classifier. The name above each point designates the training region for that experiment and the x-axis value is the
 Shannon Entropy of the distribution of class labels in that training region.




 6) Conclusion

 In this study, we proposed and assessed an approach for transferring classifiers to regions with

 shifted features and different crop type compositions than the original training region. In

 particular, to correct for differing crop type compositions in the training region and the testing

 region we present a method from the machine learning literature to reweight the classifier’s

 posterior probabilities for each class by the ratio of that class's prevalence on the test set over its

 prevalence on the training set. To correct for feature shifts between regions, we propose a method

 to estimate and then adjust for the component of the shift in the mean feature vector that is not

 attributable to changing class composition between regions. On two example datasets, we found

 that this methodology led to clear and often substantial improvements in overall accuracy when

 using LDA as our base classifier. We also demonstrated that the methodology can lead to
                                                          55
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 improvements in overall accuracy for other classifiers, focusing on Random Forests as an

 example. Another advantage of the PSA and FPSA methods is that when creating crop type

 maps, the methods can be applied to an already-trained classifier. In particular, to create a crop

 type map in a new region using FPSA with a classifier already trained in a nearby region, one

 must collect all of the agricultural pixels in the new target region, estimate the additive regional

 effect as in Section 2.2, subtract the regional effect from all pixels, apply the classifier, reweight

 the returned posterior probabilities as described in Section 2.1, and for each pixel classify it as

 the crop type with the highest reweighted posterior probability.

 There are a few practical considerations to consider for operational implementation of our

 methods. First, while the methodology demonstrates success and promise for mapping past crop

 seasons, its use of a full-year time series and aggregate-level government statistics render it less

 beneficial for near real time mapping. That being said, it may still be possible for PSA or FPSA

 to be successfully implemented for real time crop mapping using a different set of early growing

 season features and using historical data on the crop type composition in each region to estimate

 the distribution of crop type classes on the unlabeled data for the current year. Second, if the

 collected ground labels are not a random sample of pixels in a region—for example, if they are

 collected with roadside sampling —then one should also consider using PSA or FPSA to create

 satellite-based crop type maps in the same region if it is thought that certain crop types are

 underrepresented or overrepresented in roadside sampling. With roadside sampling, PSA and

 FPSA are suitable for creating satellite-based crop type maps in the nearby regions as long as the

 training set crop type probabilities used in PSA or FPSA are computed using the actual labels on

 the gathered training data rather than the training region’s aggregate-level statistics. Third, FPSA

 should still confer benefits for any choice of preprocessing steps, cloud masking procedure,


                                                   56
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 features, and base classifier. Therefore, even if the classifiers presented in this manuscript could

 be improved upon had we used top-of-canopy corrections, a different cloud-mask, different

 features than harmonic features, and a different choice of base classifier than Random Forest or

 LDA, FPSA would still confer additional benefits on top of the improved classifier. Fourth, it is

 important to note that the methodology relies on aggregate crop statistics at the regional level.

 These aggregate-level statistics only need to be accurate in a relative sense as our approach

 simply requires a good estimate of the proportion of unlabeled data points that are of each crop

 type. As aggregate-level statistics at the regional level become more widely available, the

 methodology can become more broadly applicable and can lead to a reduction in the number of

 regions where expensive field surveys are needed for creating automated crop type maps with

 remotely sensed satellite data.




 One future direction for this work is to explore whether the PSA and FPSA methods are effective

 in transferring classifiers across years rather than across geographical regions. Another future

 direction would be to characterize the types of systemic feature transformations that occur

 between regions, beyond just feature translations, and to develop methods to correct for these

 types of feature transformations. We suspect that correcting for the true feature transformations

 that occur between regions will lead to better classification performance than a correction for

 feature translations, especially for non-LDA classifiers, such as the increasingly popular Neural

 Networks.




                                                   57
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 Appendix

 The appendix can be viewed using the following link:

 https://drive.google.com/file/d/1GAqa81d6BGb5G8zwC3bzFytXPI-X6hxI/view?usp=sharing




 Acknowledgements

 The authors wish to thank Trevor Hastie and Paul Switzer for helpful discussions. The authors

 would also like to thank the associate editor and 3 anonymous reviewers for comments that

 helped improve the paper. DMK was supported by a Stanford Graduate Fellowship during the

 research and writing of this manuscript.




 References

 Branco, P., Ribeiro, R. P., and Torgo, L. , 2016. UBL: an r package for utility-based learning.

 CoRR, abs/1604.08079.




 Breiman, L., 2001. Random forests. Mach. Learn. 45 (1), 5–32.




 Cai, Y., Guan, K., Peng, J., Wang, S., Seifert, C., Wardlow, B., Li, Z., 2018. A high-performance

 and in-season classification system of field-level crop types using time-series Landsat data and a

 machine learning approach. Remote Sens. Environ. 210, 35–47.




                                                   58
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 Coluzzi, R., Imbrenda, V., Lanfredi, M., Simoniello, T., 2018. A first assessment of the Sentinel-

 2 level 1-C cloud mask product to support informed surface analyses. Remote Sens. Environ.

 217, 426–443.


 Defourny, P., Bontemps, S., Bellemans, N., Cara, C., Dedieu, G., Guzzonato, E., ... Koetz, B.,

 2019. Near real-time agriculture monitoring at national scale at parcel resolution: performance

 assessment of the Sen2-Agri automated system in various cropping systems around the world.

 Remote Sens. Environ. 221, 551–568. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2018.11.007.


 Elshamli, A., Taylor, G.W., Berg, A., Areibi, S., 2017. Domain Adaptation Using Representation

 Learning for the Classification of Remote Sensing Images. IEEE Jouranl of Selected Topics in

 Applied Earth Observations and Remote Sensing. 10 (9), 4198-4209.


 Fang, B., Kou, R., Pan, L., Chen, P., 2019. Category-Sensitive Domain Adaptation for Land

 Cover Mapping in Aerial Scenes. Remote Sens. 11(22), 2631. https://doi.org/10.3390/rs11222631


 European Space Agency (ESA) Technical Guides. Sentinel-2 Level 1-C Cloudmasks. Avaliable

 at https://sentinel.esa.int/web/sentinel/technical-guides/sentinel-2-msi/level-1c/cloud-masks

 (accessed 2020-10-01; verified 2020-10-01).




 [dataset] French Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Agreste. Land Use. Avaliable at

 https://agreste.agriculture.gouv.fr/agreste-web/disaron/SAANR_1/detail/ (accessed 2020-06-16;

 verified 2020-06-16).




                                                   59
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 [dataset] French Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Agreste. Cultivated Crops. Avaliable at

 https://agreste.agriculture.gouv.fr/agreste-web/disaron/SAANR_DEVELOPPE_2/detail/

 (accessed 2020-06-16; verified 2020-06-16).




 [dataset] French Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Agreste. Forage and Meadow. Avaliable at

 https://agreste.agriculture.gouv.fr/agreste-web/disaron/SAANR_FOURRAGE_2/detail/ (accessed

 2020-06-16; verified 2020-06-16).




 [dataset] French Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Agreste. Grape Production. Avaliable at

 https://agreste.agriculture.gouv.fr/agreste-web/disaron/SAA_VIGNE/detail/ (accessed 2020-06-

 16; verified 2020-06-16).




 Fu, G., Liu, C., Zhou, R., Sun, T., Zhang, Q., 2017. Classification for high resolution remote

 sensing imagery using a fully convolutional network. Remote Sens. 9 (5).




 Gitelson, A.A., Vina, A., Ciganda, V., Rundquist, D.C., Arkebauer, T.J., 2005. Remote

 estimation of canopy chlorophyll content in crops. Geophys. Res. Lett. 32 (8).




                                                   60
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 Hastie, T., Tibshirani, R., Friedman, J., 2009. The Elements of Statistical Learning: Data Mining,

 Inference, and Prediction. Springer Series in Statistics. Springer New York Inc., New York, NY,

 USA.




 Hollstein, A., Segl, K., Guanter, L., Brell, M., Enesco, M., 2016. Ready-to-Use Methods for the

 Detection of Clouds, Cirrus, Snow, Shadow, Water and Clear Sky Pixels in Sentinel-2 MSI

 Images. Remote Sens. 8 (8).




 Jakubauskas, M.E., Legates, D.R., Kastens, J.H., 2002. Crop identification using harmonic

 analysis of time-series AVHRR NDVI data. Comput. Electron. Agric. 37 (1), 127–139.




 Jin, Z., Azzari, G., You, C., Di Tommaso, S., Aston, S., Burke, M., Lobell, D.B., 2019.

 Smallholder maize area and yield mapping at national scales with Google Earth Engine. Remote

 Sens. Environ. 228, 115–128.




 Kobak, D., Berens, P., 2019. The art of using t-SNE for single-cell transcriptomics. Nat

 Commun. 10 (1). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-019-13056-x




                                                   61
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 Koga, Y., Miyazaki, H., Shibasaki, R, 2020. A Method for Vehicle Detection in High-Resolution

 Satellite Images that Uses a Region-Based Object Detector and Unsupervised Domain

 Adaptation. Remote Sens. 12(3), 575. https://doi.org/10.3390/rs12030575




 MapSPAM Methodology. Avaliable at https://www.mapspam.info/methodology/ (accessed

 2020-10-23; verified 2020-10-23).




 Pires de Lima, R., Marfurt, K, 2020. Convolutional Neural Network for Remote-Sensing Scene

 Classification: Transfer Learning Analysis. Remote Sens. 12(1) ,86.

 https://doi.org/10.3390/rs12010086




 Rumora, L., Miler, M., Medak, D., 2019. Contemporary comparative assessment of atmospheric

 correction influence on radiometric indices between Sentinel-2A and Landsat 8 imagery.

 Geocarto International. 10.1080/10106049.2019.1590465.




 Rumora, L., Miler, M., Medak, D, 2020. Impact of Various Atmospheric Corrections on

 Sentinel-2 Land Cover Classification Accuracy Using Machine Learning Classifiers. ISPRS Int.

 J. Geo-Inf. 9 (4).




                                                   62
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488

 Saerens, M., Latinne, P., Decaestecker, C., 2002. Adjusting the Outputs of a Classifier to New a

 Priori Probabilities: A Simple Procedure. Neural computation. 14(1).

 https://doi.org/10.1162/089976602753284446




 Storkey, A.J., 2009. When training and test sets are different: Characterising learning transfer, in:

 Quiñonero-Candela, J., Sugiyama M., Schwaighofer, A., Lawrence, N.D. (Eds.), Dataset Shift in

 Machine Learning. MIT Press, Cambridge, pp. 3–28.




 Sugiyama, M., Krauledat, M., Müller K.-R., 2007. Covariate shift adaptation by importance

 weighted cross validation. J. Mach. Learning Res. 8, 985-1005.




 van der Maaten, L., Hinton, G., 2008. Visualizing data using t-SNE. J. Mach. Learning Res. 9

 (86), 2579–2605.




 Waldner, F., Fritz, S., Di Gregorio, A., Defourny, P, 2015. Mapping Priorities to Focus Cropland

 Mapping Activities: Fitness Assessment of Existing Global, Regional and National Cropland

 Maps. Remote Sens. 7(6), 7959-7986.




 Waldner, F., Jacques, D.C., Löw, F., 2017. The impact of training class proportions on binary

 cropland classification. Remote Sensing Letters. (8) 12, 1122-

 1131. https://doi.org/10.1080/2150704X.2017.1362124
                                                   63
Published in Remote Sensing of Environment, Volume 262, 1 September 2021.
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2021.112488




 Waldner, F., Chen, Y., Lawes, R., Hochman, Z, 2019 Needle in a haystack: Mapping rare and

 infrequent crops using satellite imagery and data balancing methods. Remote Sens. Environ. 233.

 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2019.111375




 Wang, A.X., Tran, C., Desai, N.,Lobell, D., Ermon, S., 2018. Deep Transfer Learning for Crop

 Yield Prediction with Remote Sensing Data. In: ACM SIGCAS Conference on Computing and

 Sustainable Societies (COMPASS), pp. 1-5.

 Wang, S., Azzari, G., Lobell, D.B., 2019. Crop type mapping without field-level labels: Random

 forest transfer and unsupervised clustering techniques. Remote Sens. Environ. 222, 303-317.

 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2018.12.026

 You, L., Wood, S., Wood-Sichra, U., Wu, W., 2014. Generating global crop distribution maps:

 from census to grid. Agric. Syst. 127, 53–60.




                                                   64
