             remote sensing
Article
Overcoming Domain Shift in Neural Networks for Accurate
Plant Counting in Aerial Images
Javier Rodriguez-Vazquez 1,2, * , Miguel Fernandez-Cortizas 1 , David Perez-Saura 1 , Martin Molina 2
and Pascual Campoy 1

                                         1   Computer Vision and Aerial Robotics Group, Centre for Automation and Robotics (C.A.R.),
                                             Universidad Politécnica de Madrid (UPM-CSIC), 28006 Madrid, Spain
                                         2   Computer Vision and Aerial Robotics Group, Department of Artificial Intelligence,
                                             Universidad Politécnica de Madrid (UPM), 28031 Madrid, Spain
                                         *   Correspondence: javier.rodriguez.vazquez@upm.es


                                         Abstract: This paper presents a novel semi-supervised approach for accurate counting and localiza-
                                         tion of tropical plants in aerial images that can work in new visual domains in which the available
                                         data are not labeled. Our approach uses deep learning and domain adaptation, designed to handle
                                         domain shifts between the training and test data, which is a common challenge in this agricultural
                                         applications. This method uses a source dataset with annotated plants and a target dataset without
                                         annotations and adapts a model trained on the source dataset to the target dataset using unsuper-
                                         vised domain alignment and pseudolabeling. The experimental results show the effectiveness of
                                         this approach for plant counting in aerial images of pineapples under significative domain shift,
                                         achieving a reduction up to 97% in the counting error (1.42 in absolute count) when compared to the
                                         supervised baseline (48.6 in absolute count).

                                         Keywords: deep learning; aerial imagery; precision agriculture; plant detection; domain adaptation;
                                         unsupervised learning; self-supervision; adversarial learning; domain shift; tropical crops



Citation: Rodriguez-Vazquez, J.;
Fernandez-Cortizas, M.; Perez-Saura,     1. Introduction
D.; Molina, M.; Campoy, P.                    Precision agriculture relies heavily on the ability to accurately count and locate plants
Overcoming Domain Shift in Neural        in crop fields via aerial imagery. This task is crucial in optimizing the use of resources [1],
Networks for Accurate Plant              such as water [2], fertilizers, and pesticides [3], by targeting specific areas and reducing
Counting in Aerial Images. Remote        waste. Furthermore, accurate plant detection can aid in improving crop yields by identi-
Sens. 2023, 15, 1700. https://           fying and addressing issues such as pests or diseases [4]. Additionally, it can minimize
doi.org/10.3390/rs15061700               the environmental impact of agriculture by reducing the use of chemicals and the risk of
Academic Editor: Francesco Nex           pollution [5], ultimately enhancing food security and sustainability [6].
                                              However, one of the major challenges in this field is the domain gap between different
Received: 3 February 2023
                                         crops (even of the same species), as each crop possesses its own distinct characteristics,
Revised: 15 March 2023
                                         such as leaf shape, color, light conditions, or even soil, making it difficult to generalize
Accepted: 20 March 2023
                                         plant detection models from one crop to another. Traditional methods of plant detection,
Published: 22 March 2023
                                         which require manual annotation of images, are both time-consuming and costly due to
                                         the labor-intensive nature of the process, the need for a large number of labels, and the risk
                                         of error and inconsistency. Furthermore, current approaches do not account for the domain
Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.        gap, necessitating the generation of a dataset that encompasses all possible domains, thus
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.       increasing the cost significantly.
This article is an open access article        This study tackles the challenge of accurate plant counting and localization in crop
distributed under the terms and          fields despite domain shifts by introducing a new semi-supervised method. Our approach
conditions of the Creative Commons       represents a breakthrough over previous methods, as it utilizes dot annotations instead of
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://    bounding boxes, thus decreasing the cost of labeling and enabling the use of unlabeled data
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/         from new unseen shifted domains in an unsupervised manner. Our method generalizes
4.0/).




Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 1700. https://doi.org/10.3390/rs15061700                                     https://www.mdpi.com/journal/remotesensing
Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 1700                                                                                                   2 of 17




                              to new domains by utilizing only unlabeled data. The approach comprises two key mech-
                              anisms: (1) unsupervised adversarial domain alignment of intermediate features and (2)
                              self-supervision on the target domain through the inclusion of a novel pseudolabeling loss.
                                    To validate the effectiveness of our system, we conducted several experiments on a
                              dataset of pineapple crops that we created, which is composed of multiple sub-datasets,
                              each representing a crop from a distinct geographical region. As depicted in Figure 1, there
                              is a striking domain shift between datasets due to factors such as lighting conditions, growth
                              stage, soil type, etc., which makes generalizations from one dataset to another extremely
                              challenging with traditional fully-supervised methods. To the best of our knowledge,
                              this research is the first to tackle the problem of plant detection using dot annotations in
                              a semi-supervised manner while addressing domain shifts. To gauge the impact of our
                              contributions, we compared the proposed method with a fully-supervised baseline method
                              that only utilizes the available labels as input. Our approach demonstrates a significant
                              enhancement in localization and counting accuracy on the target domain.




                              Figure 1. Domain gap between different crop domains in the pineapple dataset. The images in each
                              column belong to a different crop domain, characterized by different lighting conditions, plant growth
                              stages, soil types, and other factors. The significant variations between domains pose a challenge for
                              traditional fully supervised methods, which struggle to generalize across domains.

                                   In the forthcoming sections, we will first review the related literature in the field of
                              crop counting and localization from aerial imagery. Following that, we will elaborate on
                              our proposed approach in detail, including the network architecture and semi-supervised
                              training procedure. We will then demonstrate the efficacy of our approach through the
                              results of our experiments, which exhibit its versatility across a diverse range of crops
                              and conditions. Finally, we will conclude with a discussion of the implications of our
                              work and potential avenues for future research. Our key contributions include (1) the
                              introduction of a novel counting method from aerial images using dot annotations, and
                              its application to precision agriculture, (2) the presentation of an unsupervised domain
                              adaptation method, which enables the model to leverage information from unlabeled
                              domains to improve its generalization capabilities, and (3) the proposal of a new research
                              direction on semi-supervised methods for crop counting robust to domain gaps, to reduce
                              costs in agriculture.

                              2. Related Work
                              2.1. Crop Monitoring Using Aerial Images
                                   Crop monitoring is a vital aspect of precision agriculture, and with the advent of
                              deep learning, it has become increasingly efficient and accurate. Unmanned aerial vehicles
                              (UAVs) have played a crucial role in crop monitoring [7], providing high-resolution images
                              and enabling fastmonitoring of crops [8]. Using UAVs equipped with different cameras,
                              such as RGB, thermal, and hyperspectral cameras, has opened up new possibilities for
                              crop monitoring.
                                   RGB cameras are the most widely used cameras for crop monitoring [9,10], providing
                              high-resolution images that are useful for identifying plant growth stages, identifying
Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 1700                                                                                               3 of 17




                              pests and diseases, and estimating crop yield. Thermal cameras, on the other hand, can
                              detect temperature variations in the crop canopy, providing useful information about
                              plant stress [11] and water uptake [12]. Hyperspectral cameras, which can capture images
                              across a wide range of wavelengths, can provide detailed information about the chemical
                              composition of crops, such as chlorophyll content and water content [13].
                                   The utilization of deep learning models in crop monitoring has been widespread,
                              with object detection and semantic segmentation being the most prevalent approaches.
                              Research has been conducted utilizing object detection to identify individual plants in
                              various crops, such as mango [14,15], banana [16] or citrus tree [17,18]. Object detection
                              models, such as YOLO [19], require input data in the form of large sets of bounding boxes.
                              While these datasets are relatively inexpensive to acquire, using dot annotations and only
                              labeling the center of the object can reduce the amount of input data required by half.
                              In contrast, semantic segmentation approaches enable the segmentation of pixels into
                              different regions, such as leaves, stems, and background, providing detailed information
                              about the structure of the crop [20–22]. However, it is worth noting that datasets for
                              semantic segmentation are very expensive. Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs)
                              have a broad range of applications in agriculture, including image augmentation and
                              synthesis, which can enhance model performance and decrease manual labor required for
                              data preparation. GANs have already been utilized in various agricultural tasks such as
                              plant health monitoring [23], weeds detection [24], or fruit inspection [25].

                              2.2. Object Counting from Dot Annotations
                                   The task of accurately counting objects within images can be approached through a
                              variety of methods, including individual object detection [26], direct count estimation [27],
                              and the generation of intermediate density maps. Our approach aligns with the method of
                              individual object detection as proposed by [26], as it allows for the preservation of object
                              position information. This is achieved by generating a proximity map of each pixel to the
                              center of the objects, utilizing dot annotations placed near the centers.
                                   Recent advancements in object counting methods have emphasized the utilization of
                              density map estimation, first introduced by [28]. This approach utilizes linear regression
                              on SIFT (Scale Invariant Feature Transform) [29] features to estimate the density map of
                              the desired objects. Subsequent developments in this line include the implementation of
                              regression forests in place of linear regression [30], modification of the data generation
                              procedure [31], or the application of postprocessing techniques to eliminate low confidence
                              detections [32].
                                   The application of convolutional neural networks for the estimation of density maps
                              was first introduced in [33] as a means of circumventing the need for handcrafted features.
                              Building upon this concept, the method proposed in [34] incorporates a redundant counting
                              technique by utilizing square kernels, enabling neurons to count the number of objects
                              within their receptive field.
                                   Recent progress in object counting has also been made through modifications to neural
                              network architecture, such as the introduction of upsampling layers for enhanced counting
                              resolution and improved centroid localization, as proposed by [35]. Additionally, tech-
                              niques such as those employed by [36,37] address the challenge of varying object sizes by
                              implementing multiresolution methods. Furthermore, ref. [38] proposed a channel attention
                              module, adaptable to a wide range of neural networks, that enhances counting accuracy.
                                   Efforts have also been made to address the challenge of errors arising from uniform
                              background regions in object counting, such as incorporating self-attention modules [39],
                              background segmentation [40,41], or designing region-based loss functions that specifically
                              consider background regions [42].

                              2.3. Unsupervised Domain Adaptation
                                   Unsupervised domain adaptation addresses the challenge of applying a model trained
                              on a specific source distribution to a related but distinct target distribution. While traditional
Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 1700                                                                                            4 of 17




                              “shallow” domain adaptation methods focus on reweighting source samples and learning a
                              shared feature space between the source and target datasets [43], the utilization of deep
                              neural networks (DNNs) in deep domain adaptation has proven to yield more transferable
                              representations. This is due to the tendency of DNNs to learn highly transferable features
                              in the lower layers, with decreasing transferability in higher layers. Therefore, the goal of
                              deep domain adaptation is to leverage this property of DNNs.
                                   One popular approach to deep domain adaptation is the Deep Adaptation Network
                              (DAN) [44], which utilizes weighting techniques to match the different domain distributions
                              and improve feature transferability. Additionally, DAN employs an optimal multi-kernel
                              selection method to reduce domain discrepancy further.
                                   Another approach, Deep CORAL (Deep Correlation Alignment) [45], is an unsuper-
                              vised method that utilizes a non-linear transformation to align the correlations of layer
                              activations in DNNs. The use of a non-linear transformation in Deep CORAL enables the
                              capturing of complex relationships between layers, resulting in improved performance
                              compared to linear transformations used by other methods.
                                   Deep domain confusion [46] is a technique for creating a representation that is both
                              semantically meaningful and invariant across different domains. This is achieved by intro-
                              ducing an adaptation layer into the CNN architecture and implementing an additional loss
                              function referred to as “domain confusion loss”. This allows the model to learn represen-
                              tations that are not biased towards any particular domain, making it more generalizable
                              when applied to new contexts.
                                   Another promising approach is CoGAN (Coupled Generative Adversarial Networks) [47],
                              which can learn a joint distribution of multi-domain images without requiring tuples of
                              corresponding images in different domains in the training set. To accomplish this, Co-
                              GAN uses samples drawn from the marginal distributions and enforces a weight-sharing
                              constraint to favor the joint distribution solution over the product of marginal distributions.
                                   Finally, the DANN (Domain Adaptive Neural Networks) method [48] works by aug-
                              menting a feed-forward model with standard layers and a novel gradient reversal layer.
                              This enables the model to learn deep features that are both specific to the source domain
                              and applicable to the target domain. The gradient reversal layer promotes adaptation
                              behavior, allowing for successful transfer across different domains when trained using
                              standard backpropagation.

                              3. Method
                              3.1. Overview
                                   Our proposed method for crop counting and localization from aerial imagery com-
                              prises two distinct stages: (1) A convolutional neural network (CNN) is utilized to predict
                              the probability of the presence of the center of each plant in the input image, and (2) a blob
                              detector is employed to localize each plant.
                                   To address the challenge of domain shifts between different crops, we propose a
                              semi-supervised training procedure incorporating two key mechanisms: an adversarial
                              framework and pseudolabeling. In the adversarial framework, we utilize a domain discrim-
                              inator (Ddom ) to learn to differentiate between samples from two datasets that are similar
                              but diverge due to domain shifts (e.g., different soils, growth stages of plants, lighting
                              conditions, etc.). This forces the main network only to utilize relevant features that are
                              present in both domains, aligning the intermediate feature representations of both domains.
                                   However, this approach only focuses on making the domains indistinguishable at the
                              feature level, which could result in the loss of semantic information in the target data. To
                              circumvent this, we introduce a pseudolabeling mechanism that reinforces the confident
                              outputs of the network and prevents forgetting as training progresses. This enables us to
                              incorporate samples from a different source domain during training in an unsupervised
                              manner while still preserving the semantic information present in the target domain.
Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 1700                                                                                                    5 of 17




                              3.2. Supervised Baseline Model
                                    We adopt the methodology presented in [49] as our supervised baseline. This approach
                              seeks to achieve the count and localization of objects by dividing the problem into two
                              primary stages.
                                    Initially, a DNN G maps the input image I to a new image C, representing the probabil-
                              ity of the presence of the center of an object at each pixel. To aid in this objective, a second
                              neural network Dimage is utilized to discriminate between ground truth target images and
                              those generated by G through an adversarial training procedure.
                                    Subsequently, each individual object is detected using the Laplacian of Gaussian
                              (LoG) [50], enabling the detection of objects that are very close or even overlapping.
                                    The following sections provide a more comprehensive understanding of the baseline
                              method and the modifications we have made to it. For a thorough overview of the method,
                              we direct the reader to the original publication [49].

                              3.2.1. Target Label Construction
                                    The aim of the generator network G is to learn to create a map that shows the proba-
                              bility of finding the center of an object at each pixel of the image. This is done by defining a
                              Gaussian map Gm for each pixel x using the following equation.
                                                                                                      2
                                                                                       − DT ( x,P )
                                                                                                                                  (1)
                                                                      Gm ( x, P) = e         2σ2



                              where P is the set of point annotations in the image, and σ is a configurable parameter that
                              determines the width of the blobs in the map. To calculate Gm , we need first to calculate
                              the distance transform DT of the annotation set:

                                                                  DT ( x, P) = miny∈ P dist( x, y)                                (2)

                                   This map represents the distance of each pixel x to the closest point y from the anno-
                              tated set P. We use the Euclidean distance to calculate the distances:
                                                                      q
                                                         dist( x, y) = ( xi − yi )2 + ( x j − y j )2                  (3)

                                   To avoid detecting objects that are too close together as a single one, we emphasize
                              the frontiers between objects by setting the values of those pixels to 0. This is done using
                              the following equation:
                                                         
                                                             0            ∃ p x ∃ py , |dist( x, p x ) − dist( x, pY )| ≤ td
                                           T ( x, P) =                                                                            (4)
                                                             Gm ( x, P)   otherwise

                              where td is a distance threshold that determines the thickness of the frontiers, and p x
                              and py are annotations in P. After conducting a series of experiments, it was determined
                              empirically that a threshold of 2 was the most effective value. Therefore, this threshold was
                              set for all experiments. The use of these frontiers encourages the neural network to learn to
                              divide objects that are too close together into different blobs, making detection easier.

                              3.2.2. Network Architecture
                                   The baseline method uses a generative adversarial network (GAN) architecture to
                              avoid blurry results when minimizing the Euclidean distance between pairs of pixels [51].
                              The GAN consists of two networks: a generator G that learns to map input images to
                              intermediate representations and a discriminator Dimage that learns to distinguish between
                              the generated outputs from G and the ground truth. The generator and discriminator
                              compete with each other in an adversarial fashion, with the generator trying to produce
                              outputs that are indistinguishable from the ground truth and the discriminator trying
Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 1700                                                                                                    6 of 17




                              to identify the generated outputs accurately. This competition drives both networks to
                              improve, ultimately resulting in more accurate center maps.
                                   We use a modified Up-net [49] architecture as the generator network. This design is
                              based on the work presented in [52] and combines the advantages of U-net [53], and fully
                              convolutional networks (FCNs) [54]. U-nets are effective at extracting rich semantic features
                              at the bottleneck layer and recovering high-frequency information at higher layers using
                              skip connections, while FCNs use skip connections to propagate information throughout
                              the network without increasing the total number of parameters. By combining these
                              two approaches, our modified U-net architecture can extract useful features from the
                              input image and reconstruct it accurately without significantly increasing the number of
                              parameters in the network. The architecture is shown in Figure 2




                              Figure 2. Selected Up-Net architecture [49] for the generator network. The network has 4 main
                              parts, (1) the encoding path generates rich features to represent the input image, decreasing the
                              resolution, (2) the bottleneck layer, (3) the decoding path increases the resolution of the generated
                              features and generates the final output, (4) the skip connections provide high spatial resolution to the
                              decoding path. Each convolutional block is composed of three convolutions (with kernel size 3, each
                              one followed by a Batch Normalization layer [55] and with ReLU activation). Green arrows depict
                              the upsampling layers, which are composed of a first bicubic upsampling of the feature maps that
                              doubles the resolution and is followed by a convolutional layer that halves the number of channels,
                              Batch Normalization and ReLU activation.

                                    The discriminator architecture follows the PatchGAN [51] design, as outlined in
                              Table 1. By analyzing patches of the input image rather than the entire image, the network
                              can lower computational costs and improve efficiency.
                                    Inspired by the work of Ganin et al. [48], we added a gradient reversal layer (GRL)
                              between the generator and the discriminator. This change allows us to train both networks
                              jointly in the same forward pass, reducing the training complexity and computational costs
                              while maintaining opposing objectives in each network. As proposed in [48], we scale the
                              gradients flowing from the discriminator to the generator inversely proportional to the
                              current training step to overcome the early instabilities of adversarial training. Figure 3
                              provides a visual overview of the training procedure.
                                    During training, the generator and discriminator networks are optimized using a
                              combination of adversarial and reconstruction losses (Equations (5) and (6)). The adversar-
                              ial loss is used to encourage the generator to produce outputs that are indistinguishable
                              from the ground truth, while the reconstruction loss is used to encourage the generator
                              to reconstruct the input image accurately. We adopted a least square GAN [56] objective.
                              These losses are combined and used to update the weights of the generator and discrimi-
Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 1700                                                                                                          7 of 17




                              nator networks, ultimately leading to more accurate results. The parameter λ Adv acts as a
                              weighting factor between both loss terms.

                                                 L Baseline ( G, Dimage ) = Lsupervised ( G ) + λ Adv L Adv ( G, Dimage )
                                                                                                                                         (5)
                                                                        with Lsupervised ( G ) = Ex,y [||y − G ( x )||1 ]

                                                                                                                          
                                         L Adv ( G, Dimage ) = Ex,y ||1 − Dimage (y)||2 + Ex,y || − 1 − Dimage ( G ( x ))||2             (6)

                              Table 1. The architecture of the discriminator used in our model is presented in this table. We employ
                              LeakyReLU activation functions in all layers except for the output layer, which uses the hyperbolic
                              tangent function. With a stride of 32 pixels, this discriminator can effectively analyze and distinguish
                              structures of up to that size.

             Layer            Input Channels         Output Channels           Kernel Size            Stride                Activation
          Conv2D                     1                       64                      4                   2            LeakyReLU(0.2)
     BatchNormalization
          Dropout
          Conv2D                    64                      128                      4                   2            LeakyReLU(0.2)
     BatchNormalization
          Dropout
          Conv2D                   128                      256                      4                   2            LeakyReLU(0.2)
     BatchNormalization
          Dropout
          Conv2D                   256                      512                      4                   2            LeakyReLU(0.2)
     BatchNormalization
          Dropout
          Conv2D                   512                      512                      4                   2            LeakyReLU(0.2)
     BatchNormalization
          Dropout
          Conv2D                   512                      256                      4                   1            LeakyReLU(0.2)
     BatchNormalization
          Conv2D                   256                        1                      4                   1                    Tanh




                              Figure 3. The baseline method uses two neural networks, G and Dimage , which are trained together
                              in an adversarial manner. G attempts to map input images to center maps, while Dimage tries to
                              distinguish between ground truth and generated outputs. The gradient reversal layer (GRL) allows
                              both networks to be trained together, even though they have opposing objectives, by reversing the
                              sign of the gradient and scaling it when it flows from Dimage to G. This allows the networks to be
                              trained in a single pass.

                              3.3. Semi-Supervised Training under Domain Distribution Shifts
                                   In this work, we aim to address the challenge of domain shift and improve the
                              generalization of a base model by incorporating unlabeled data from the target domain into
                              the training process. To achieve this, we propose a novel approach that combines two key
                              mechanisms: adversarial alignment of intermediate features between the two domains and
                              pseudo-labeling of the target domain data. Our adversarial alignment strategy involves
                              training a neural network to perform a task while also learning domain-invariant features
                              through an adversarial training process. This helps the model generalize better to the
Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 1700                                                                                            8 of 17




                              target domain by learning common features across both domains. Our pseudo-labeling
                              approach involves using the model’s own predictions as labels for the target domain data,
                              thereby preserving the richness and meaning of the target domain features and allowing
                              the model to capture the unique characteristics of the target domain. By combining these
                              two mechanisms, we can improve the performance of the base model on the target domain,
                              enabling it to generalize to new domains.

                              3.3.1. Multilevel Adversarial Domain Align
                                    To improve the generalization of our base model to the target domain, we draw
                              inspiration from the DANN method [48]. This method involves training a secondary neural
                              network, called the domain discriminator (Ddomain ), to distinguish between samples from
                              the source and target domains based on the intermediate feature representation produced
                              by the main network. The main network is then trained in an adversarial manner, using
                              the gradients from the domain classification loss to update the network weights and force
                              the encoder path to extract features that are invariant across domains.
                                    However, in our case, we are using a U-Net-like architecture with skip connections.
                              Enforcing feature invariance at a single point (e.g., at the bottleneck layer) is insufficient
                              for aligning the feature spaces of the two domains due to the flow of information between
                              different levels of the network-enabled by the skip connections. To address this issue, we
                              propose a new multilevel domain discriminator that takes as input the features at each skip
                              connection level, aligning the domains at each level and ensuring that all features used by
                              the decoder path are aligned.
                                    Our multilevel discriminator architecture consists of four discriminator blocks and a
                              final block, as illustrated in Figure 4. Each discriminator block takes as input the features
                              at the current level, as well as the output of the previous block (except for the first block).
                              This hierarchical representation of the features allows the network to extract and combine
                              features at each skip connection level, enabling more effective alignment of the feature
                              spaces of the two domains. The final block of the discriminator aggregates all of this
                              information and uses it to determine, at the patch level, whether the features are from the
                              source or target domain, following the PatchGan architecture proposed in [51]. Additionally,
                              we have added residual connections [57] to improve the propagation of gradients and
                              facilitate the training process.
                                    We denote the domain label d as an indicator, with d = −1 indicating that a sample is
                              drawn from the source domain and d = 1 indicating that it is drawn from the target domain.
                                    To train the domain discriminator, we follow the Least Squares Generative Adversarial
                              Network (LSGAN) [56] objective, which leads to the following loss term:

                                                 L Domain ( E, DDomain ) = Ex, y[||d − DDomain ( E( x ))||2 ]             (7)

                                    Here, E represents the encoder part of the generator network G, as shown in Figure 2.
                              The domain discriminator DDomain takes as input the intermediate feature representation at
                              all skip levels produced by the encoder E and produces a prediction of the domain label d
                              for that sample.
Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 1700                                                                                                        9 of 17




                              Figure 4. Multilevel discriminator architecture. This design aims to adapt features at various levels
                              ( f 0 − f 3 ). The architecture consists of five main blocks, with the first four blocks taking as input the
                              features at the current skip connection level and the output of the previous block. The last block is
                              used to determine whether the features come from a source or target sample. We use a Gradient
                              Reversal layer at each input. It is important to note that each discriminator block includes a residual
                              skip connection.

                              3.3.2. Selective Confidence Pseudolabeling
                                   While adversarial alignment can ensure the statistical alignment of intermediate
                              features, it does not guarantee semantic alignment. As a result, it is possible that the
                              resulting intermediate representations in the target domain, while conforming to the same
                              data distribution as the source domain, may not be useful for detecting plants.
                                   To address this issue, we observed that at the early stages of training, when the
                              network is not fully adapted to the source domain, it outputs some highly confident
                              predictions that are accurate. However, as training progresses, the network becomes better
                              suited to the provided data and forgets these confident outputs, resulting in an inability
                              to detect any of the plants in the target data. To capitalize on this phenomenon, we have
Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 1700                                                                                            10 of 17




                              developed a selective confidence pseudolabeling technique to avoid forgetting these early
                              accurate outputs.
                                     To compute the pseudolabel, we first gather the confident coordinates. This is achieved
                              by smoothing the network output, ŷ, with a Gaussian filter and then identifying local
                              maxima in the output. We only consider highly confident outputs with two thresholds:
                              an adaptive threshold t adaptive , set at 0.9 of the maximum value of the current output, and
                              a hard absolute threshold t absolute , typically set at 0.5. Additionally, we filter out maxima
                              that are too close together using a threshold tdistance , set at 2σ, where σ is a configurable
                              parameter determining the size of the blobs in the baseline method. The pseudolabel is
                              then computed using only these dot annotations, similar to the baseline method.
                                     Since the network does not detect all objects at the beginning of training, we do not
                              want to train the network using negative pseudolabels. To address this, we mask the loss
                              in pixels where the pseudolabel is less than a threshold tmask , typically set at 0.2. Finally,
                              we compute the loss between ŷ and the pseudolabel ˜y using an L2 (MSE) loss.
                                     To further improve the robustness of our approach, we use an adaptive scaling term,
                              β scale , to multiply the loss term. This term is scheduled to be very small at the beginning
                              of training and gradually increases as training progresses. This helps to better gather
                              confident pseudolabels as the network becomes more confident.
                                     Overall, our masked selective confidence pseudolabeling approach allows us to lever-
                              age the confident outputs of the network at the early stages of training and avoid forgetting
                              these outputs as training progresses. This helps to improve the semantic alignment of the
                              intermediate representations in the target domain and improves the ability of the network
                              to detect plants in the target data.
                                                                      
                                                                        0                                   ˜y < tmask
                                                L pseudolabel ( G ) =                                                      (8)
                                                                        β scale Ex, y[||( E( x )) − ˜y||2 ] otherwise
                              Being ˜y the pseudolabel generated by Algorithm 1.

                              Algorithm 1 Proposed selective confidence pseudolabeling
                               1: procedure C OMPUTE P SEUDO L ABEL (ŷ)
                               2:    ŷsmooth ← MedianFilter(ŷ)
                               3:    M ← FindLocalMaxima(ŷsmooth )
                               4:    P̂ ← FilterMaxima( M, t adaptive = 0.9, t absolute = 0.5)
                               5:    P̂ ← FilterCloseMaxima( P̂, tdistance = 2σ )
                               6:    ˜y ← T ( P̂)
                               7:    return ˜y
                               8: end procedure


                              4. Results
                                  In the following section, we present the results obtained from validating our proposed
                              method.

                              4.1. Experimental Setup
                                   All the proposed method is implemented using the frameworks Pytorch [58] and
                              Pytorch Lightning [59]. The GPU used for training has been an Nvidia GeForce RTX 2080
                              Ti. For training all networks, we use Adam [60] optimizer with a 0.0001 learning rate.
                                   To increase the generalization capabilities of the model, we use RandAugment [61]
                              with 3 steps in all tests.

                              Dataset
                                   In this study, we employ an aerial imagery dataset of pineapple crops from various
                              geographical regions to demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method in han-
                              dling domain shifts. The dataset comprises a diverse set of images that exhibit significant
Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 1700                                                                                                  11 of 17




                              variations in lighting conditions, plant growth stage, soil type, and other factors. It com-
                              prises several sub-datasets, each belonging to a crop from a different geographical area, as
                              illustrated in Figure 1.
                                    The images in the dataset were labeled using dot annotations, which mark the center
                              of each plant. In total, the dataset comprises 2944 images, with a total of 33,280 plants. The
                              images have a resolution of 256 × 256 pixels and are in the RGB color space.
                                    To evaluate the effectiveness of our proposed method, we divided the dataset into
                              three domain folds: A, B, and C. Each fold corresponds to a single crop with distinct
                              characteristics. This enabled us to assess the generalization ability of our method across
                              different domains. Folds A and B are roughly the same size, with 1408 and 1280 images,
                              respectively, while fold C contains only 256 images. This imbalanced distribution allows us
                              to test the robustness of our method against uneven domain sizes.
                                    Furthermore, we have gathered a separate dataset specifically for testing the domain
                              generalization abilities of our system. This dataset comprises data from 9 distinct domains
                              (from different geographical areas), each with a unique set of characteristics, such as color,
                              soil type, illumination, etc. To ensure a thorough evaluation, we have gathered a total
                              of 4224 images across all domains, reserving 64 from each domain for testing purposes.
                              Although the test dataset is balanced, the training dataset is strongly unbalanced across
                              domains, with domains represented as low as 3% while others account for 20% of the
                              representation, conforming to an additional challenge. In total, this dataset comprises
                              45,782 plants. Figure 5 depicts a sample of the dataset.




                              Figure 5. Sample of the General Domain dataset depicting 9 diverse domains with unequal representation.
Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 1700                                                                                            12 of 17




                              4.2. Experiments
                                    In this study, we aimed to investigate the impact of each component of our proposed
                              method for domain adaptation in aerial images of pineapple crops. To evaluate the per-
                              formance of our method, we selected the relative Mean Absolute Error (rMAE) of crop
                              count estimates as the evaluation metric. The rMAE is defined as the ratio of the absolute
                              error to the true count (presented in percentage). For each trial, we randomly selected 70%
                              of the dataset for training and validation and used the remaining images as the test set.
                              To estimate the mean and standard deviation of the rMAE, we repeated this procedure
                              ten times.

                              4.2.1. Ablation Study
                                    We conducted an ablation study to understand the individual contributions of each
                              component of our method to the final performance. Our ablation study consisted of
                              five experimental trials in which we systematically introduced and removed components
                              of our method. The results of the ablation study are presented in Table 2. The first
                              experiment employed the baseline method without any additional modifications. In the
                              second experiment, we introduced the adversarial domain alignment mechanism and
                              observed an improvement in performance on the target domain. However, we encountered
                              convergence issues when training both discriminators simultaneously, so in the third
                              experiment, we disabled the adversarial branch of the baseline method to investigate
                              its impact. The fourth experiment examined the pseudo-labeling approach without any
                              domain alignment, and we observed that the pseudo-labeling approach relies on accurate
                              and confident network outputs. Without domain alignment, the model began to reinforce
                              incorrect pseudo-labels, leading to a significant decrease in performance. Finally, in the fifth
                              experiment, we incorporated both pseudo-labeling and domain alignment mechanisms
                              and observed a significant reduction in error.

                              Table 2. Ablation study results, showing the impact of each component of our proposed method
                              on rMAE.

                                  Lsupervised           L adv             Ldomain          L pseudolabel      rM AE (%)
                                      X                  X                                                    59.39 ± 21.31
                                      X                  X                   X                                24.63 ± 19.55
                                      X                                      X                                 12.32 ± 7.29
                                      X                                                         X             27.42 ± 23.75
                                      X                                      X                  X              2.44 ± 1.54


                              4.2.2. Domain Adaptation Experiments
                                   We also evaluated the domain adaptation capabilities of our method by testing the
                              adaptation from one source domain to another. For this evaluation, we utilized datasets
                              A, B, and C and compared the results of our proposed approach to those of two fully-
                              supervised methods: a baseline method that can only access source domain labels and an
                              oracle method that had access to both source and target domain labels. The oracle method
                              aims to provide an expected behavior of the model when all the labels are provided, giving
                              a sense of the magnitude of the performance increase. Table 3 summarizes the results of
                              our domain adaptation experiments. The results illustrate that our method consistently
                              demonstrates proficiency in adapting between domains, resulting in a mean reduction in
                              error up to 97%. However, there was a single instance (when the source dataset was the
                              smallest one) where the reduction in error was limited to 10% only. Nonetheless, when
                              our method successfully performed the adaptation, the error margins were closely aligned
                              with those of the oracle method.
Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 1700                                                                                                  13 of 17




                              Table 3. Results of our unsupervised domain adaptation approach in rMAE (%). Each row shows
                              the results of the models trained with one source dataset and tested on another one. The final
                              column represents the performance of a fully supervised model with access to both source and target
                              domain labels.

                                    Experiment                Baseline               Our Method                  Oracle
                                      A→B                   59.39 ± 21.31              2.44 ± 1.54             2.39 ± 1.12
                                      A→C                   56.93 ± 24.53             5.94 ± 11.45             6.43 ± 1.35
                                      B→A                   48.60 ± 16.43             1.42 ± 2.97              1.39 ± 1.73
                                      B→C                   87.12 ± 16.77             6.24 ± 4.59              3.44 ± 2.65
                                      C→A                   91.79 ± 15.31             7.85 ± 4.90              1.42 ± 1.76
                                      C→B                   82.95 ± 14.19            74.85 ± 12.60             2.16 ± 1.92


                              4.2.3. Domain Generalization Experiments
                                   To measure the ability of our method to generalize across various domains at the same
                              time, we performed experiments that evaluated its performance on the whole domain
                              generalization dataset, each time with a different source domain A, B, and C. The results
                              of these experiments are summarized in Table 4. Our findings indicate that while our
                              unsupervised approach consistently outperforms the supervised baseline, achieving a
                              mean reduction in error of 61%, there is still room for improvement in this setting if we
                              compare the results obtained with the oracle.

                              Table 4. Results on domain generalization of our approach in rMAE (%). We show the results of the
                              generalized dataset training with just one source dataset in each column. The final row depicts the
                              performance of a fully supervised model with access to all labels.

                                      Source                  Baseline               Our Method                  Oracle
                                         A                  58.65 ± 26.71            21.61 ± 11.27             3.43 ± 4.56
                                         B                  70.19 ± 25.18            25.73 ± 15.20             2.97 ± 9.17
                                         C                  68.97 ± 37.27            29.46 ± 17.49             5.37 ± 5.74


                              5. Discussion
                                    In this study, we present a novel semi-supervised approach for precise plant counting
                              in aerial images of crop fields, which effectively addresses the challenge of domain shift
                              between training and test data commonly faced in agricultural applications. Our method
                              integrates deep learning and domain adaptation techniques to adapt a model trained on
                              a labeled source dataset to an unlabeled target dataset through unsupervised domain
                              alignment and pseudo-labeling. This makes our approach highly desirable for real-world
                              applications where labeled data may be scarce.
                                    The experimental results show that our approach excels in handling significant do-
                              main shifts in a one-to-one adaptation setting, reducing error by up to 97% compared to
                              a supervised baseline, remaining very competitive with respect to an oracle model with
                              access to all labels. However, the reliance on a confidence-based pseudolabeling approach
                              can fail when the domain gap is significant. In such cases, false positive pseudolabels
                              can cause the model to diverge in the target domain, leading to an inability to recover.
                              To overcome this limitation, developing mechanisms to detect such cases could be ben-
                              eficial. In the domain generalization setting, our approach reduces error by an average
                              of 61%, but there is still room for improvement as the gap with respect to oracle remains
                              large. The confidence-based pseudolabeling approach can lead to early, confident outputs
                              dominating the adaptation, resulting in the underrepresentation of domains with large
                              distances from the main domain. To address this, redesigning the adversarial framework to
                              consider multiple target domains or creating subdomains in an unsupervised manner could
                              detect underperforming domains and increase the weight of such domains to alleviate the
                              underrepresentation issue.
Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 1700                                                                                                        14 of 17




                                   Future work in this field could address the limitations identified in this study. One
                              approach could be to enhance the pseudolabeling mechanism to ensure more accurate label
                              predictions and prevent model divergence in the target domain. This could be achieved by
                              implementing voting systems for pseudolabels or incorporating a history of pseudolabels.
                              Another area for improvement is the adaptation framework, which could be modified to
                              consider multiple target subdomains to handle diverse domains better.
                                   Additionally, developing unsupervised techniques for early stopping and hyperpa-
                              rameter tuning would be beneficial, as these mechanisms currently rely on access to target
                              validation data. The current method also requires retraining from scratch for every new do-
                              main and access to the source dataset. To overcome these limitations, exploring source-free
                              retraining methods that only require access to target data samples and developing online
                              domain adaptation techniques to adapt to new domains without the need for retraining
                              continuously would be valuable avenues for future research. Another possible avenue
                              for future research is to improve the performance of the proposed model to enable its
                              deployment onboard for online inspection, as its current real-time capabilities are limited
                              when using a desktop GPU.

                              6. Conclusions
                                    In conclusion, our novel semi-supervised approach is a significant improvement for
                              plant counting in aerial images of tropical crops. It effectively addresses the challenge
                              of domain shift by combining deep learning and domain adaptation techniques through
                              unsupervised domain alignment and pseudo-labeling. The results of our experiments
                              demonstrate the potential of our approach in reducing error up to 97% compared to a
                              supervised baseline and remaining competitive with respect to an oracle model with access
                              to all labels.
                                    Our approach can potentially improve efficiency and sustainability in the agricultural
                              sector, reducing the cost of crop monitoring and minimizing the use of resources such
                              as water, fertilizers, and pesticides. However, some limitations must be addressed, such
                              as the reliance on confidence-based pseudolabeling and the need for retraining for each
                              new domain.
                                    The findings of this paper provide a solid foundation for further research and have
                              the potential to have a significant positive impact on the efficiency and sustainability
                              of agricultural operations. To facilitate building upon our work and encourage further
                              research in this area, we are releasing the code used in this paper. The code can be accessed
                              at https://github.com/cvar-upm/tropical_plant_counting_UDA.

                              Author Contributions: Conceptualization, J.R.-V., M.M. and P.C.; methodology, J.R.-V.; software,
                              J.R.-V., D.P.-S. and M.F.-C.; validation, D.P.-S. and M.F.-C.; formal analysis, J.R.-V. and D.P.-S.; investi-
                              gation, J.R.-V.; resources, P.C.; data curation, D.P.-S. and M.F.-C.; writing—original draft preparation,
                              J.R.-V.; writing—review and editing, D.P.-S., M.F.-C., M.M. and P.C.; supervision, M.M. and P.C.;
                              project administration, P.C.; funding acquisition, P.C. All authors have read and agreed to the pub-
                              lished version of the manuscript.
                              Funding: This work has been supported by the project COPILOT ref. Y2020/EMT6368 “Control,
                              Monitoring and Operation of Photovoltaic Solar Power Plants using synergic integration of Drones,
                              IoT, and advanced communication technologies”, funded by the Madrid Government under the R&D
                              Synergic Projects Program and partially funded by the project INSERTION ref. ID2021-127648OBC32,
                              “UAV Perception, Control and Operation in Harsh Environments”, funded by the Spanish Ministry
                              of Science and Innovation under the program ”Projects for Knowledge Generation”. The work of the
                              third author is supported by the Spanish Ministry of Science and Innovation under its Program for
                              Technical Assistants PTA2021-020671.
                              Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
                              Acknowledgments: The authors would like to thank Indigo Drones for proving the aerial images for
                              this study and to Adrián Álvarez-Fernández and Joaquín Fernández-Zafra for helping in the labeling
                              process of the dataset.
Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 1700                                                                                                       15 of 17




                                  Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

References
1.    Bongiovanni, R.; Lowenberg-DeBoer, J. Precision agriculture and sustainability. Precis. Agric. 2004, 5, 359–387. [CrossRef]
2.    Lu, Y.; Liu, M.; Li, C.; Liu, X.; Cao, C.; Li, X.; Kan, Z. Precision Fertilization and Irrigation: Progress and Applications.
      AgriEngineering 2022, 4, 626–655. [CrossRef]
3.    Talaviya, T.; Shah, D.; Patel, N.; Yagnik, H.; Shah, M. Implementation of artificial intelligence in agriculture for optimisation of
      irrigation and application of pesticides and herbicides. Artif. Intell. Agric. 2020, 4, 58–73. [CrossRef]
4.    Li, W.; Chen, P.; Wang, B.; Xie, C. Automatic localization and count of agricultural crop pests based on an improved deep learning
      pipeline. Sci. Rep. 2019, 9, 7024. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
5.    Roberts, D.P.; Short, N.M.; Sill, J.; Lakshman, D.K.; Hu, X.; Buser, M. Precision agriculture and geospatial techniques for
      sustainable disease control. Indian Phytopathol. 2021, 74, 287–305. [CrossRef]
6.    Cohen, A.R.; Chen, G.; Berger, E.M.; Warrier, S.; Lan, G.; Grubert, E.; Dellaert, F.; Chen, Y. Dynamically Controlled Environment
      Agriculture: Integrating Machine Learning and Mechanistic and Physiological Models for Sustainable Food Cultivation. ACS
      ES&T Eng. 2021, 2, 3–19.
7.    Barbedo, J.G.A. A review on the use of unmanned aerial vehicles and imaging sensors for monitoring and assessing plant stresses.
      Drones 2019, 3, 40. [CrossRef]
8.    Hafeez, A.; Husain, M.A.; Singh, S.; Chauhan, A.; Khan, M.T.; Kumar, N.; Chauhan, A.; Soni, S. Implementation of drone
      technology for farm monitoring & pesticide spraying: A review. Inf. Process. Agric. 2022. [CrossRef]
9.    Bouguettaya, A.; Zarzour, H.; Kechida, A.; Taberkit, A.M. A survey on deep learning-based identification of plant and crop
      diseases from UAV-based aerial images. Clust. Comput. 2022, 26, 1297–1317. [CrossRef]
10.   Bouguettaya, A.; Zarzour, H.; Kechida, A.; Taberkit, A.M. Deep learning techniques to classify agricultural crops through UAV
      imagery: A review. Neural Comput. Appl. 2022, 34, 9511–9536. [CrossRef]
11.   Pineda, M.; Barón, M.; Pérez-Bueno, M.L. Thermal imaging for plant stress detection and phenotyping. Remote Sens. 2020, 13, 68.
      [CrossRef]
12.   Stutsel, B.; Johansen, K.; Malbéteau, Y.M.; McCabe, M.F. Detecting plant stress using thermal and optical imagery from an
      unoccupied aerial vehicle. Front. Plant Sci. 2021, 12, 734944. [CrossRef]
13.   Adão, T.; Hruška, J.; Pádua, L.; Bessa, J.; Peres, E.; Morais, R.; Sousa, J.J. Hyperspectral imaging: A review on UAV-based sensors,
      data processing and applications for agriculture and forestry. Remote Sens. 2017, 9, 1110. [CrossRef]
14.   Xiong, J.; Liu, Z.; Chen, S.; Liu, B.; Zheng, Z.; Zhong, Z.; Yang, Z.; Peng, H. Visual detection of green mangoes by an unmanned
      aerial vehicle in orchards based on a deep learning method. Biosyst. Eng. 2020, 194, 261–272. [CrossRef]
15.   Koirala, A.; Walsh, K.; Wang, Z.; McCarthy, C. Deep learning for real-time fruit detection and orchard fruit load estimation:
      Benchmarking of ‘MangoYOLO’. Precis. Agric. 2019, 20, 1107–1135. [CrossRef]
16.   Neupane, B.; Horanont, T.; Hung, N.D. Deep learning based banana plant detection and counting using high-resolution
      red-green-blue (RGB) images collected from unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV). PLoS ONE 2019, 14, e0223906. [CrossRef]
17.   Ampatzidis, Y.; Partel, V. UAV-based high throughput phenotyping in citrus utilizing multispectral imaging and artificial
      intelligence. Remote Sens. 2019, 11, 410. [CrossRef]
18.   Osco, L.P.; De Arruda, M.d.S.; Junior, J.M.; Da Silva, N.B.; Ramos, A.P.M.; Moryia, É.A.S.; Imai, N.N.; Pereira, D.R.; Creste, J.E.;
      Matsubara, E.T.; et al. A convolutional neural network approach for counting and geolocating citrus-trees in UAV multispectral
      imagery. ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens. 2020, 160, 97–106. [CrossRef]
19.   Redmon, J.; Divvala, S.; Girshick, R.; Farhadi, A. You only look once: Unified, real-time object detection. In Proceedings of the
      IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Las Vegas, NV, USA, 27–30 June 2016; pp. 779–788.
20.   Yang, M.D.; Tseng, H.H.; Hsu, Y.C.; Tsai, H.P. Semantic segmentation using deep learning with vegetation indices for rice lodging
      identification in multi-date UAV visible images. Remote Sens. 2020, 12, 633. [CrossRef]
21.   Song, Z.; Zhang, Z.; Yang, S.; Ding, D.; Ning, J. Identifying sunflower lodging based on image fusion and deep semantic
      segmentation with UAV remote sensing imaging. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 179, 105812. [CrossRef]
22.   Kitano, B.T.; Mendes, C.C.; Geus, A.R.; Oliveira, H.C.; Souza, J.R. Corn plant counting using deep learning and UAV images.
      IEEE Geosci. Remote Sens. Lett. 2019. [CrossRef]
23.   Ramadan, S.T.Y.; Sakib, T.; Haque, M.M.U.; Sharmin, N.; Rahman, M.M. Generative Adversarial Network-based Augmented
      Rice Leaf Disease Detection using Deep Learning. In Proceedings of the 2022 25th International Conference on Computer and
      Information Technology (ICCIT), Tabuk, Saudi Arabia, 25– 27 January 2022; pp. 976–981.
24.   Hasan, A.M.; Sohel, F.; Diepeveen, D.; Laga, H.; Jones, M.G. A survey of deep learning techniques for weed detection from
      images. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2021, 184, 106067. [CrossRef]
25.   Lu, Y.; Chen, D.; Olaniyi, E.; Huang, Y. Generative adversarial networks (GANs) for image augmentation in agriculture: A
      systematic review. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2022, 200, 107208. [CrossRef]
26.   Xie, Y.; Xing, F.; Kong, X.; Su, H.; Yang, L. Beyond classification: Structured regression for robust cell detection using convolu-
      tional neural network. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Medical Image Computing and Computer-Assisted
      Intervention, Munich, Germany, 5–9 October 2015; pp. 358–365.
Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 1700                                                                                                       16 of 17




27.   Seguí, S.; Pujol, O.; Vitria, J. Learning to count with deep object features. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer
      Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops, Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh, 17–19 December 2015; pp. 90–96.
28.   Lempitsky, V.; Zisserman, A. Learning to count objects in images. Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst. 2010, 23, 1324–1332.
29.   Lowe, D.G. Distinctive image features from scale-invariant keypoints. Int. J. Comput. Vis. 2004, 60, 91–110. [CrossRef]
30.   Fiaschi, L.; Köthe, U.; Nair, R.; Hamprecht, F.A. Learning to count with regression forest and structured labels. In Proceedings of
      the 21st International Conference on Pattern Recognition (ICPR2012), Tsukuba, Japan, 11–15 November 2012; pp. 2685–2688.
31.   Jiang, N.; Yu, F. A Cell Counting Framework Based on Random Forest and Density Map. Appl. Sci. 2020, 10, 8346. [CrossRef]
32.   Jiang, N.; Yu, F. A refinement on detection in cell counting. In Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE International Conference on
      Consumer Electronics and Computer Engineering (ICCECE), Guangzhou, China, 15–17 Januar 2021; pp. 306–309.
33.   Xie, W.; Noble, J.A.; Zisserman, A. Microscopy cell counting and detection with fully convolutional regression networks. Comput.
      Methods Biomech. Biomed. Eng. Imaging Vis. 2018, 6, 283–292. [CrossRef]
34.   Paul Cohen, J.; Boucher, G.; Glastonbury, C.A.; Lo, H.Z.; Bengio, Y. Count-ception: Counting by fully convolutional redundant
      counting. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision Workshops, Venice, Italy, 22–29 October 2017;
      pp. 18–26.
35.   Rad, R.M.; Saeedi, P.; Au, J.; Havelock, J. Cell-net: Embryonic cell counting and centroid localization via residual incremental
      atrous pyramid and progressive upsampling convolution. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 81945–81955.
36.   He, S.; Minn, K.T.; Solnica-Krezel, L.; Anastasio, M.A.; Li, H. Deeply-supervised density regression for automatic cell counting in
      microscopy images. Med Image Anal. 2021, 68, 101892. [CrossRef]
37.   Jiang, N.; Yu, F. A Two-Path Network for Cell Counting. IEEE Access 2021, 9, 70806–70815. [CrossRef]
38.   Jiang, N.; Yu, F. Cell Counting with Channels Attention. In Proceedings of the 2020 IEEE 5th International Conference on Signal
      and Image Processing (ICSIP), Nanjing, China, 3–5 July 2020; pp. 494–498.
39.   Guo, Y.; Stein, J.; Wu, G.; Krishnamurthy, A. SAU-Net: A Universal Deep Network for Cell Counting. In Proceedings of the
      10th ACM International Conference on Bioinformatics, Computational Biology and Health Informatics, Houston, TX , USA, 3–6
      September 2019; pp. 299–306.
40.   Jiang, N.; Yu, F. A Foreground Mask Network for Cell Counting. In Proceedings of the 2020 IEEE 5th International Conference on
      Image, Vision and Computing (ICIVC), Beijing, China, 10–12 July 2020; pp. 128–132.
41.   Arteta, C.; Lempitsky, V.; Zisserman, A. Counting in the wild. In Proceedings of the European Conference on Computer Vision,
      Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 11–14 October 2016; pp. 483–498.
42.   Jiang, N.; Yu, F. Multi-column network for cell counting. OSA Contin. 2020, 3, 1834–1846. [CrossRef]
43.   Mehrkanoon, S.; Blaschko, M.; Suykens, J. Shallow and deep models for domain adaptation problems. In Proceedings of the
      ESANN 2018, Bruges, Belgium, 25–27 April 2018; pp. 291–299.
44.   Long, M.; Cao, Y.; Wang, J.; Jordan, M. Learning transferable features with deep adaptation networks. In Proceedings of the
      International Conference on Machine Learning PMLR, Lille, France, 7–9 July 2015; pp. 97–105.
45.   Sun, B.; Saenko, K. Deep coral: Correlation alignment for deep domain adaptation. In Proceedings of the European Conference
      on Computer Vision, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 11–14 October 2016; pp. 443–450.
46.   Tzeng, E.; Hoffman, J.; Zhang, N.; Saenko, K.; Darrell, T. Deep domain confusion: Maximizing for domain invariance. arXiv 2014,
      arXiv:1412.3474.
47.   Liu, M.Y.; Tuzel, O. Coupled generative adversarial networks. In Proceedings of the Advances in Neural Information Processing
      Systems, Barcelona, Spain, 5–10 December 2016.
48.   Ganin, Y.; Lempitsky, V. Unsupervised domain adaptation by backpropagation. In Proceedings of the International Conference
      on Machine Learning PMLR, Lille, France, 7–9 July 2015; pp. 1180–1189.
49.   Rodriguez-Vazquez, J.; Alvarez-Fernandez, A.; Molina, M.; Campoy, P. Zenithal isotropic object counting by localization using
      adversarial training. Neural Netw. 2022, 145, 155–163. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
50.   Wang, G.; Lopez-Molina, C.; De Baets, B. Automated blob detection using iterative Laplacian of Gaussian filtering and unilateral
      second-order Gaussian kernels. Digit. Signal Process. 2020, 96, 102592. [CrossRef]
51.   Isola, P.; Zhu, J.Y.; Zhou, T.; Efros, A.A. Image-to-image translation with conditional adversarial networks. In Proceedings of the
      IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Honolulu, HI, USA, 21–26 July 2017; pp. 1125–1134.
52.   Sampedro, C.; Rodriguez-Vazquez, J.; Rodriguez-Ramos, A.; Carrio, A.; Campoy, P. Deep learning-based system for automatic
      recognition and diagnosis of electrical insulator strings. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 101283–101308. [CrossRef]
53.   Ronneberger, O.; Fischer, P.; Brox, T. U-net: Convolutional networks for biomedical image segmentation. In Proceedings of the
      International Conference on Medical Image Computing and Computer-Assisted Intervention, Munich, Germany, 5–9 October
      2015; pp. 234–241.
54.   Long, J.; Shelhamer, E.; Darrell, T. Fully convolutional networks for semantic segmentation. In Proceedings of the IEEE
      Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Boston, MA, USA, 7–12 June 2015; pp. 3431–3440.
55.   Ioffe, S.; Szegedy, C. Batch normalization: Accelerating deep network training by reducing internal covariate shift. arXiv 2015,
      arXiv:1502.03167.
56.   Mao, X.; Li, Q.; Xie, H.; Lau, R.Y.; Wang, Z.; Paul Smolley, S. Least squares generative adversarial networks. In Proceedings of the
      IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision, Venice, Italy , 22–29 October 2017; pp. 2794–2802.
Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 1700                                                                                                           17 of 17




57.   He, K.; Zhang, X.; Ren, S.; Sun, J. Deep residual learning for image recognition. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on
      Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Las Vegas, NV, USA, 27–30 June 2016; pp. 770–778.
58.   Paszke, A.; Gross, S.; Massa, F.; Lerer, A.; Bradbury, J.; Chanan, G.; Killeen, T.; Lin, Z.; Gimelshein, N.; Antiga, L.; et al. PyTorch:
      An Imperative Style, High-Performance Deep Learning Library. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 32; Wallach,
      H., Larochelle, H., Beygelzimer, A., d Alche-Buc, F., Fox, E., Garnett, R., Eds.; Curran Associates, Inc.: Red Hook, NY, USA, 2019;
      pp. 8024–8035.
59.   Falcon, W. PyTorch Lightning. GitHub. Note. 2019. Volume 3. Available online: https://github.com/PyTorchLightning/pytorch-
      Light (accessed on 31 January 2023).
60.   Kingma, D.P.; Ba, J. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization. arXiv 2014, arXiv:1412.6980.
61.   Cubuk, E.D.; Zoph, B.; Shlens, J.; Le, Q.V. Randaugment: Practical automated data augmentation with a reduced search space. In
      Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops, Seattle, WA, USA, 14–19
      June 2020; pp. 702–703.

Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
