Opens in a new window Opens an external website Opens an external website in a new window

This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality, as well as for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising. Privacy Policy

Storage Preferences

Nutrient Status Diagnosis of Infield Oilseed Rape via Deep Learning-Enabled Dynamic Model | IEEE Journals & Magazine | IEEE Xplore

Journals & Magazines >IEEE Transactions on Industri... >Volume: 17 Issue: 6

Nutrient Status Diagnosis of Infield Oilseed Rape via Deep Learning-Enabled Dynamic Model

PDF

Alwaseela Abdalla; Haiyan Cen; Liang Wan; Khalid Mehmood; Yong He

All Authors

Alerts

Alerts

Manage Content Alerts

Add to Citation Alerts

Download PDF

Download References

Request Permissions

Save to

Alerts

Abstract:
The symptoms of the nutrient stress in plant canopies differ among different growth stages. It is a challenge to develop individual diagnosis models to evaluate the nutri...Show More

Metadata

Abstract:

The symptoms of the nutrient stress in plant canopies differ among different growth stages. It is a challenge to develop individual diagnosis models to evaluate the nutrient status for a specific growth stage in time. Therefore, this article encoded spatiotemporal information of plants in a single time-series model to evaluate the nutrient status of oilseed rape more efficiently. Specifically, in this article, we combined the convolutional neural network (CNN) and long short-term memory (LSTM) to classify the oilseed rape crops according to their nutrient status. The model was validated on a large number of sequential images acquired from oilseed rape canopies at different growth stages during a two-year experiment. Different pretrained CNNs were used to extract distinctive features from every time step of sequential images and then, these features were considered as the input of LSTM to classify the oilseed rape into nine classes of nutrient statuses. We demonstrated that the LSTM outperformed the traditional machine-learning method and the deep features showed better performance compared with hand-crafted features. The Inceptionv3-LSTM obtained the highest overall classification accuracy of 95% when tested on the dataset of 2017/2018 and it also provided a good generalization when using a cross-dataset validation, with the highest overall accuracy of 92%. Our proposed approach presents a pathway toward automatic nutrient status diagnosis during the whole life cycle of the plants, and the LSTM technique would play an essential role in the near future for time-series analysis for precision agriculture.

Published in: IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics ( Volume: 17, Issue: 6, June 2021)

Page(s): 4379 - 4389

Date of Publication: 16 July 2020

DOI: 10.1109/TII.2020.3009736

Funding Agency:

Contents

SECTION I.

Introduction

Oilseed rape is a vital crop for oil and raw materials production. Nutrient deficiency is an important yield-limiting factor of oilseed rape that causes substantial yield losses and reduces its quality [1]. Meanwhile, excessive applications of fertilizers may also be retained in the soil or leached into the groundwater leading to serious environmental problems [2]. Accurate and timely diagnosis of the nutrient status of oilseed rape can allow farmers to take preventive measures, mitigate economic and production losses, and reduce environmental pollutions [3]. Over the last decades, the most practical approach for detection and identification of nutrient deficiency still relies on visual observation by experts or laboratory-based chemical analysis, which is time-consuming, labor-intensive, and costly to measure plant materials in a large-scale area [4]. Furthermore, such offline analysis prevents instantaneous regulations of fertilizer applications (i.e., variable-application rates) [5]. Nowadays, the fast development of computer vision and machine learning has provided a new opportunity for continuous monitoring of plant growth status under different growing conditions and early detection of plant nutrient deficiency. However, applications of these methods in outdoor field conditions are challenging problems that require expert feature extraction methods as well as sophisticated machine learning classifiers.

Numerous studies involving a rapid assessment of the nutritional status of the crops have been carried out with the use of hand-crafted features (HF), such as vegetation indices [6], structural [7], textural [8], and color features [9]. These features are either used as an individual [10] or combination [11] basis as the input of machine learning classifiers or regressors. The HF-based methods could mislead the interpretation of the nutrient status because such methods are profoundly influenced by the illumination conditions, the response of the camera sensor to the changes in plant surface characteristics, and cultivars. Furthermore, in some cases, symptoms, such as potassium (K) deficiency, are not immediately visible. There is only a reduction in growth rate and leaf curl at the early stage, and small changes in leave patterns with chlorosis and necrosis occurring at the late stage [12]. In these situations, traditional HFs will not be suitable for the timely detection of such symptoms. Therefore, the extraction of reliable features for more precise detection of the nutrition status of the plant would be valuable. Furthermore, most of the aforementioned methods have been conducted in the laboratory and more work is required to investigate the feasibility for field applications in a real-time manner.

Over the last few years, the problems of HFs have been addressed by using deep learning, in particular, convolutional neural networks (CNNs). CNNs automatically learn and extract the most descriptive feature from the data during the training process. As a result, a new feature for discriminating plants grown under different types of nutrients is discovered in this process. Few studies about using deep-CNN for nutrient status detection have been reported in the literature. Ghosal et al. [13] proposed a deep-CNN framework for identification, classification, and quantification of different biotic and abiotic stresses. They trained the model using the leaflet images collected from the field at a single growth stage. The generalization capability of the framework at the canopy level with different growth stages was not investigated. Although symptoms of the nutrient deficiency can manifest in all parts of the plant, only the leaflet part was considered in their study. Tran-Khac et al. [14] employed deep learning networks for classifying calcium, nitrogen, and potassium deficit in tomato plants.

Symptoms of different types of deficit nutrients (e.g., mobile and immobile nutrients) could be similar, depending on the plant growth stage. In mobile nutrients, visual scarcity first appears in the older or lower leaves and effects can then be generalized in plant canopies. In contrast, the immobile nutrient cannot be transferred from one plant organ to another. The nutrient deficiency symptoms first occur in the newer and upper leaves and then, happen in a localized fashion [15]. Due to the complexity of plant structures and nutrient-stressed symptoms at different stages, a sophisticated nutrient diagnosis system that considers the deficiency during the whole life cycle is highly demanded. Although CNNs have shown a great performance in diagnosing nutrient deficiency in plants, they are not appropriate for modeling dynamic systems, such as time-series image datasets acquired from the whole growth period. The long–short term memory (LSTM) has proved the potential for analyzing dynamic systems in several applications, such as fault diagnosis in water management systems [16] and mood recognition [17]. The first attempt toward a time-series analysis of agricultural images was reported by Taghavi Namin et al. [18]. They combined CNN and LSTM for the classification of various Arabidopsis genotypes under control conditions, which may have observable characteristics. However, there are a number of challenges in estimating the nutrient status of the same genotype under field conditions, including the effects of various sunlight intensities, as well as how to normalize images so that the variation in plant color is only due to the influence of growing conditions and not due to varying illumination conditions. The image registration from the cluttered background and extracting the most advanced features to describe different nutrient symptoms are also of great challenges in field conditions. To address these problems, we apply CNN to capture images with consistent color across plant canopies, crop identification from a complex background and extract distinctive features from the processed images for nutrient status diagnosis. Then, the LSTM is used for image sequence learning and classification. To the best of our knowledge, the LSTM model has not been applied for studying the plant's nutritional status in field conditions. We claim that the LSTM model is able to classify the plants not only based on the current nutrient status but also based on the far past status because it can connect the previous information about the plant's health status to the present information.

This article aims to develop a deep learning-based time-series framework for timely and accurate diagnosis of nutrient status in oilseed rape under field conditions. The novel contributions of this article are concluded as follows.

We explored the capability of CNN-based features for describing the visual symptoms of oilseed rape grown under various nutrient levels and compared it with HFs.

We used the LSTM that combines multitemporal red, green, and blue (RGB) images of plant canopies for identification (the type of nutrient stress) and classification plants grown in different nutrient levels (low, normal, and high stress) without detailed symptom annotation with experts.

In order to represent the practical challenges of the approach for a nutrient status diagnosis and prove its generalization capability, we perform cross-datasets validation between different years.

It is expected that this article would provide a baseline to instigate vision-guided mobile platforms (e.g., ground vehicle and unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) for real-time nutrient diagnosis for improving crop production.

The rest of this article is organized as follows. Section II introduces the experimental setup. Section III presents image preprocessing, features extraction, and general CNN-LSTM model architecture. Section IV presents and discusses the results of the proposed methods. Finally, Section V concludes this article.

SECTION II.

Experimental Setup

A. Experimental Materials and Design

Two-year oilseed rape experiment was carried out during the winter season in 2017/2018 and 2018/2019 at the Grain-production functional area of Anhua (29° 31′5.35′ N, 120° 6′6.12′ E), Zhuji city, Zhejiang province, China. The two experiments were conducted with the randomized complete block design. A total of 100 plots were sown with oilseed rape of cultivar “ZD360”, and each plot was 5 × 9 m in size and comprised of three oilseed rape rows, with a spacing distance of 0.25 m between rows. The irrigation furrow between every two adjacent plots had a width of 0.5 m. A protection plot of 1 m width was established to surround the whole field to reduce the edge effect. In the two experiments, the oilseed rapes were first sown in the prepared seedbeds in October using high-fertility soils, and plants at the four-leaf stage were then transplanted to the experimental field in November. Nine treatments including two potassium (K) levels, four nitrogen (N) levels, two phosphate (P) levels, and normal fertilizer were performed, and every treatment had a different number of replications as described in Table I. For both experiments, fertilizers were applied in early November, mid-December, and early March next year. For each treatment, we used the normal rate of two fertilizers and increased or decreased the rate of the third nutrient so that to investigate the influence of each nutrient individually.

TABLE I Potassium (K), Nitrogen (N), and Phosphate (P) Fertilizer Rates for Each Treatment and the Number of Replications for Each Treatment are Shown in Brackets

B. Image Acquisition

Canopy images were collected using a portable RGB Canon camera (PowerShot SX720 HS, Canon, Inc., Tokyo, Japan). The images were acquired under sunny and partly cloudy conditions in the morning hours (8:30–12:00) local time, Greenwich Mean Time (GMT+8). The camera was mounted on a tripod at a distance of 1.2 m above the ground surface, facing downward and set in an automatic acquisition mode. During the 2017/2018 experiment, the images were acquired at three different growth stages, seven images taken from each plot. During the 2018/2019 experiment, the images were collected at four different growth stages, 15 images captured from each plot. The total number of the images and acquisition dates of the two-year experiment are summarized in Table II. The RGB color images were stored as a raw format image quality with the spatial resolution of 3888 × 5186 pixels.

TABLE II Description of Two-Year Experiment Related to the Growth Stage and the Sampling Dates

SECTION III.

Image Preprocessing and Model Development

A. Data Preprocessing

Image preprocessing was conducted prior to feature extraction. In order to minimize the color variation caused by the different illumination conditions, color calibration was first performed to transform the image color to be as close as possible to the standard color supplied by the X-Rite company [19]. It was achieved using an especially pretrained deep learning model combined with the k-means algorithm, and more detailed information can be found in our previous study [20]. Image segmentation was then performed to extract the plant canopy from the background (i.e., weeds, straw, and soil) using a VGG16-based encoder model that was initially trained using oilseed rape images with high-density weeds. Although some of our dataset used in this study has relatively uniform background and does not include high-density weeds, the model can be automatically fine-tuned once again using our new image dataset. Details of the image segmentation method were reported in the work of Abdalla et al. [21].

B. Deep Learning-Based Feature Extraction

The final goal is to classify the sequential images of oilseed rape plants (see Fig. 1) into the different levels of the nutrient. Pretrained CNNs were first fine-tuned on our training dataset to learn features that are fed to the LSTM. The dataset was comprised of sequences of infield images of the crops at different growth stages. In order to account for interclass variability, we divided each treatment class into five subclasses based on the vegetation fraction, which means that the CNNs were trained to produce k × 5 classes, where k is the number of treatments. Several pretrained CNN architectures can be found in the literature, and it is a challenging task to choose the most appropriate CNN architecture for deep feature (DF) extraction. In this study, an empirical approach was adopted to extract features using several pretrained models, including VGG16 [22], AlexNet [23], ResNet18, ResNet101 [24], and Inception [25], and then, the best one was selected for subsequent analysis. All these networks were pretrained on the ImageNet public dataset to classify the images into 1000 classes. These networks differed in the input size, the number of layers, and the number of the learnable parameters. In our study, the last layers of these networks were replaced by other classification layers with 45 neurons to classify images into 45 classes. The images were resized to match the input size of each network. For training the networks, a common best practice transfer learning approach that fine-tuned the weights of pretrained models was employed. All networks were trained over a maximum number of 100 epochs and the training was stopped when there was no improvement in validation loss over four consecutive epochs. To optimize the parameters during the training process, we used a stochastic gradient descent optimizer, a learning rate of 0.001, a momentum of 0.09, and a mini-batch of 60 images. The basic idea was to use these CNN architectures for feature extraction only. However, this does not account for the temporal information in image datasets or the temporal pattern that plants might display.

Fig. 1.
Examples of the time-series image datasets of oilseed rape acquired at different growth stages under different treatments.

C. Hand-Crafted Features

In this article, HFs, including vegetation fraction, color, and textural features, were also derived from the segmented images and concatenated as the input of the classification models. The results were then compared with those obtained using the deep learning-based features. The vegetation fraction was computed as the percentage of the number of canopy pixels divided by the total number of image pixels. The averages of the RGB color intensities were calculated from the segmented images. Four textural features were derived using the gray-level co-occurrence matrix, including energy, homogeneity, contrast, and entropy. Textural, vegetation fraction, and color features were then combined to form high-dimensional HFs.

D. CNN-LSTM Model Architecture

The LSTM is a special kind of recurrent neural network (RNN) that is capable of learning short- and long-term dependencies between time steps in the sequential data. It was first introduced by Hochreiter and Schmidhuber [26] to incorporate the gate mechanism and memory cells in the hidden layers of a standard RNN for addressing vanishing and exploding gradient problems and improving its memory and storage capabilities. LSTM is the most suitable network for sequential problems, such as time-series, stock prediction, speech recognition, and signal analysis [27].

The main unit of LSTM is composed of a cell state (c) and a hidden state (output state; h), which are controlled by four components including forget gate (f), candidate gate (g), input gate (i), and output gate (O). The cell state remembers the information learned from the previous time steps, and the gates regulate the flow of information from and into the cell at each time step. All these gates concatenate the input of the current time step (xt) with the hidden state of the previous time step (ht-1). The forget gate decides which information should be maintained in the cell using an activation function (i.e., sigmoid). The input gate and the candidate gate determine the new information stored in the cell state. The input gate determines which values should be updated by using a hyperbolic tangent function, while the candidate gate decides which new candidate value should be added to the cell state using a sigmoid function. Finally, the output gate determines the piece of the information that should be added to the new hidden state using sigmoid and hyperbolic tangent functions. A sample of the LSTM unit is shown in Fig. 2.

Fig. 2.
Main components of the LSTM unit.

The proposed CNN-LSTM framework for nutrient diagnosis is shown in Fig. 3. The time-series dataset was fed into the trained CNN models for feature extraction. The DFs were extracted from the last fully-connected (FC) layers of the CNN models and fed to the LSTM model as a j × 1 cell array, where j is the number of images in each time step (see Table II). Each cell contains m × n matrix, where m is the number of feature values (equal to the number of classes: k) and n is the number of time steps (the number of time steps for each dataset is described in Table II). The LSTM model was trained end-to-end using a backpropagation algorithm. The cross-entropy loss was employed as a loss function, and hyperparameters of the LSTM are presented in Table III. The hyperparameters were selected after a large number of experiments based on the 2017/2018 dataset in which we adjusted the parameters of the network by taking into account both classification accuracy and training difficulty. After training, the final hidden state ht-s encoded the most important information for sequential data. We took ht-s as the representation vector and used the FC layer to transform it into a vector whose length equals the number of classes. A softmax layer was connected in the last LSTM unit to classify k nutrient levels. The number of neurons of this layer was set to match the number of the classes.

Fig. 3.
Proposed CNN-LSTM framework for nutrient status diagnosis using time-series image dataset. j is the number of images per time step, which equals 700 and 1500 in the dataset of 2017/2018 and 2018/2019, respectively.

TABLE III Description of LSTM Architecture Parameters

To better investigate the robustness and effectiveness of the proposed framework, we tested the model in two different ways as follows. First, feature values extracted from datasets of each year were randomly divided into 70% and 30% for the model training and testing, respectively, and second, to further prove the generalization capability of the model, it was trained using feature values extracted from the entire dataset of 2018/2019 and tested on the features extracted from the whole dataset of 2017/2018 (i.e., cross-dataset validation).

E. Traditional Machine Learning Classifier

As the most prevalent method in remote sensing for image classification and pattern recognition, a multiclass support vector machine (MCSVM) was used as a benchmark to compare the performance of the LSTM model for monitoring the nutrient status of the plant. MCSVM has been demonstrated to be superior over most of the machine learning algorithms in image processing [28]. In this case, we dealt with the images as they were collected at a single growth stage (i.e., single time step), we ignored the temporal cues. In other words, we reshaped the data into a × m matrix, where a = j × n.

F. Performance Evaluation of the Proposed Framework

To select the best deep CNN for the feature extraction, a study was conducted to compare the performances of various pretrained CNN architectures, including VGG16, AlexNet, ResNet18, Inception3, and ResNet101. The contribution of the DF to diagnose the nutrient status of the oilseed rape was evaluated by comparing them with well-known high-dimensional HFs (see Section III-C). The t-distributed stochastic neighbor embedding (t-SNE) is used to evaluate the performance of the feature extractors [29]. Furthermore, the proposed time-series model (i.e., LSTM) was also compared with a well-known standard MCSVM by using the datasets obtained from the two-year experiment, and the best model was then used to test the generalization capability and reliability of the proposed framework. To this end, we trained the classification model on the entire dataset of 2018/2019 and evaluated the performance on the dataset of 2017/2018. Several evaluation metrics, including accuracy (Acc), precision (Pr), recall (Re), and F-measure (Fm) were used to assess the performance of the competing methods. The frameworks were implemented by using MATLAB R2019a (The MathWorks, Inc., Natick, MA, USA) on an NVIDIA GeForce GTX1080Ti GPU equipped with 3548 CUDA Cores and 16 GB of GPU memory.

SECTION IV.

Results And Discussion

A. DFs Versus HFs

To evaluate the performance of the six feature extraction methods, feature maps of Inceptionv3, ResNet101, ResNet18, VGG16, AlexNet, and HF are presented in Fig. 4(a)–​(f). It was observed that clusters were well separated in the two-dimensional space by Inceptionv3 [see Fig. 4(a)]. In contrast, it was difficult to distinguish classes using HF, as shown in Fig. 4(f). While ResNet101, ResNet18, VGG16, and AlexNet provided relatively good performances in differentiating classes. This result suggests that the features derived using deep learning techniques were more discriminative than those HFs.

Fig. 4.
t-SNE maps of (a) Inceptionv3, (b) ResNet101, (c) ResNet18, (d) VGG16, (e) AlexNet, and (f) HF.

To further investigate the contribution of the DFs to diagnose the nutritional status of the plants, we performed a comparative experiment and quantitative analysis in terms of Acc, Pr, Re, and Fm. Although we attempted to concatenate a large number of hand-crafted descriptors, DF-based models outperformed the classification models built on these descriptors (see Table IV). For the same classification model (i.e., LSTM), when replacing DF (Inceptionv3) with HF, the Acc, Pr, Re, and Fm were considerably improved by 69.6%, 69.6%, 62.7%, and 63.8%, respectively, for the 2017/2018 dataset, and by 130%, 151%, 126.8%, and 138.5%, respectively, for the 2018/2019 dataset, further demonstrating the effectiveness of DFs for image classification. These results were in agreement with the visualization analysis using t-SNE.

TABLE IV Comparison Results of the Different Classification Methods

The illumination conditions and the scale of the images imposed extra challenges in image processing, particularly for discrimination of the symptoms among different nutrient treatments. HFs required sophisticated skill and knowledge from the users and it also needs to be fine-tuned in different imaging conditions. In contrast, the CNN DF extraction provides a unique opportunity that exempts from manual feature extraction.

B. LSTM Versus MCSVM

In this article, we have demonstrated the effectiveness of the LSTM for plant health status monitoring. Table IV presents the overall testing accuracy obtained by the LSTM and MCSVM, using DF and HFs. The average values reported in this table were calculated by over 20 executions of the same experimental dataset with the random selection of training and testing datasets.

Regardless of the features used as the input of the model, it was evident that the LSTM achieved a remarkable performance in terms of all classification metrics, far superior to the MCSVM, proving the effectiveness of the proposed LSTM time-series model for diagnosing the nutritional status of the oilseed rapes. The Inceptionv3-LSTM obtained the best performance with the highest Acc, Pr, Re, and Fm (95%, 95%, 96%, and 95%, respectively) for the 2017/2018 dataset, and 92%, 93%, 93%, and 93%, respectively, for the 2018/2019 dataset, while the HF-MCSVM achieved the lowest performance in terms of all classification metrics. Note that using a pure CNN-based classifier with no sequence learning module (i.e., LSTM) led to the classification accuracy of 77%, which is lower than that of the system with LSTM, indicating the benefit of using LSTM to recognize the temporal dynamics in feature changes.

Plants at different growth stages respond differently to nutrient stress and other stimuli. It would be difficult to detect the health status from a single growth stage. Additionally, determination of the optimal growth stage for nutrient deficiency detection or development of separate models for different growth stages is a daunting task and may not provide a reliable result for decision making. The recent advancement in sensor technologies, such as unmanned aerial vehicles and ground-based platforms, have become mature, and they are able to offer the time-series data acquisition with high temporal and spatial resolutions [30]. Therefore, developing a model that accumulates the information from different growth stages is highly important for efficient plant health monitoring. Traditional machine learning classifiers, e.g., MCSVM, do not have the ability to learn long-term dependencies between data because they cannot remember previous information, resulting in a low prediction capability for long-term sequential data (see Table IV). The LSTM has a sophisticated network architecture that composes of self-looped cells, which allows information to easily flow along the cells unchanged. The problems of multitemporal data analysis have been well-documented for land-cover observation and dynamic changes detection [31]. But multitemporal analysis using the LSTM and DFs to diagnose the nutritional status of the plants has not yet been reported in the literature.

Confusion matrices of the HF-LSTM, Inceptionv3-LSTM, and Inceptionv3-MCSVM were generated to demonstrate the capability of our proposed framework to differentiate symptoms of different nutrient levels (see Fig. 5). The first row of Fig. 5 shows the confusion matrices for the 2017/2018 dataset, while the second row is for the 2017/2018 dataset. In the two-year experiment, the Inceptionv3-LSTM revealed a superior performance to discriminate between the symptoms of zero-N, low-N, high-N, very high-N, low-P, high-P, low-K, high-K, and normal-N-P-K classes with lowest classification errors. For both experiments (2017/2018 and 2018/2019), although the MCSVM was combined with features extracted from the optimal CNN architecture (Inceptionv3), it provided relatively poor performance. Most types of symptoms become indistinguishable by the MCSVM model, which further demonstrated that conventional machine learning classifier was not able to distinguish between symptoms of N-P-K nutrients with different levels. When combining HF features with LSTM, the classification errors were substantially increased compared with the DF-based LSTM model, which further proved the claim of improvement being made using the DF. We also notice that the performance of HF-LSTM between different years is quite different, because the interannual weather variation may significantly restrict the repeatability of the symptom's identification using the HF.

Fig. 5.
Confusion matrices of different model configurations when models were tested on the datasets from different years. (a) HF-LSTM, (b) Inceptionv3-LSTM, and (c) Inceptionv3-MCSVM, for the 2017/2018 dataset, and (d) HF-LSTM, (e) Inceptionv3-LSTM, and (f) Inceptionv3-MCSVM, for the 2018/2019 dataset.

A significant accuracy improvement can be achieved for nutrient status diagnosis systems by increasing the model size of the CNN-LSTM. Unfortunately, the ever-increasing size of the CNN-LSTM may lead to a challenge when deploying deep learning in the embedded system for real-time applications. Leveraging pretrained deep learning networks and compressing them through model pruning or directly searching for simple and small network architectures is a newer area of research. The idea of the model pruning is to take full pretrained networks and remove unnecessary weights and connections that cause the least increase in the objective function. After pruning, the computational complexity of the model can be significantly reduced; thus, it can be run on resource-constrained devices. More studies of computational complexity are, therefore, a topic for future research.

C. Model Performance Using Cross Datasets

In order to support the claim of superior generalization capabilities of the proposed approach, the model was trained on the 2018/2019 dataset and evaluated by the 2017/2018 dataset. Although we did not perform retraining to our model in this experiment for the purpose of representing a practical challenge for a nutrient status diagnosis, inceptionv3-LSTM model achieved a superior generalization, with the highest Acc, Pr, Re, and Fm of 92%, 92%, 93%, and 93%, respectively, as illustrated in Table V. The performance of our proposed framework was comparable to the reported study that employed CNN-LSTM for Arabidopsis classification of various genotypes under the controlled condition [18]. However, one should notice the significant difference between experimental conditions and classification subjects. Our advanced framework is able to handle a more complex problem than the reported study by considering the color calibration caused by the varied illumination, image segmentation with the cluttered background, and distinctive and informed features extraction from the processed images to accurately diagnose the plant nutrient status. All these procedures were automatically conducted by deep learning without any human intervention. The proposed framework improved the generalization capability in the complex environmental conditions, which is the most challenging work in agricultural applications. Such an ability is essential for deploying vision-guided autonomous field robots with variable-rate fertilization. Furthermore, this framework can be applied to analyze the datasets with interannual variations.

TABLE V Classification Results of the Cross-Dataset Performance When Model Trained on the 2018/2019 Dataset and Evaluated on the 2017/2018 Dataset

Fig. 6 shows the confusion matrix of cross-dataset evaluation when the models were trained on the 2018/2019 dataset and tested on the 2017/2018 dataset. We observed that the LSTM had a great generalization capability better than the traditional MCSVM. Among all classes, the high-N class was the most indistinguishable and it was highly confused with very high-N class. The zero-N class had a precision of 98.8% and a recall of 100%. Misclassified classes are typically due to the influence of environmental factors, e.g., soil fertility and weather conditions.

Fig. 6.
Confusion matrices of cross-datasets validation. (a) Inceptionv3–LSTM and (b) Inceptionv3–MCSVM.

D. Evaluation of the Training Process

The training accuracy of the model could be affected by the quality of the training dataset and interclass variability. Although we attempted to minimize this variation by dividing data into subclasses as described in Section III-B, the training accuracy revealed a certain degree of fluctuations. As shown in Fig. 7(a)–​(c), when the model trained on the 2017/2018 dataset, it was relatively stable compared with those trained on 70% of the 2018/2019 dataset and the whole 2018/2019 dataset. The impact of the stability in the training accuracy and losses was also observed in the final predicted outputs of the model (see Table IV). This phenomenon can be explained by large phenotypic variations (i.e., DFs variation) within each class.

Fig. 7.
Accuracy and loss of the inceptionv3–LSTM model during the training process. (a) Model trained on the 2017/2018 image dataset. (b) 70% of the 2018/2019 dataset. (c) Whole 2018/2019 dataset.

SECTION V.

Conclusion

This article suggested an efficient deep learning time-series model coupled with a DF extraction to diagnose the nutrient status of the oilseed rape. Our model was validated on a two-year experiment and the results demonstrated that the automated deep learning-based feature extraction reduces the dependence on HF methods. This article also manifested the importance of encoding multitemporal information in a single dynamic model for detecting the nutrition status of the plants. The highest overall accuracy of 95% and 92% was obtained by the Inceptionv3-LSTM configuration model for a two-year experiment. The Inceptionv3-LSTM model also showed a relatively good generalization capability when tested in different environmental conditions and provided an overall accuracy of 92%. However, our framework provided a pathway for identification (the type of nutrient stress) and classification (low, normal, and high stress) of nutrient status and can be deployed on mobile platforms (e.g., ground-level platform and UAV) for real-time nutrient status diagnosis. Due to the flexibility of the proposed framework, it can also be used with minor modifications for other applications, such as real-time drought stress detection, yield prediction, and disease detection.

More Like This

Discrete Wavelet Transform based EEG Feature Extraction and Classification for Mental Stress using Machine Learning Classifiers

2022 IEEE International Conference on Artificial Intelligence in Engineering and Technology (IICAIET)

Published: 2022

Leveraging Feature Extraction and Machine Learning for Effective Plant Disease Classification

2024 3rd Edition of IEEE Delhi Section Flagship Conference (DELCON)

Published: 2024

Show More

References

References is not available for this document.

IEEE Account

Change Username/Password

Update Address

Purchase Details

Payment Options

Order History

View Purchased Documents

Profile Information

Communications Preferences

Profession and Education

Technical Interests

Need Help?

US & Canada: +1 800 678 4333

Worldwide: +1 732 981 0060

Contact & Support

About IEEE Xplore

Contact Us

Help

Accessibility

Terms of Use

Nondiscrimination Policy

Sitemap

Privacy & Opting Out of Cookies

A not-for-profit organization, IEEE is the world's largest technical professional organization dedicated to advancing technology for the benefit of humanity.
© Copyright 2026 IEEE - All rights reserved. Use of this web site signifies your agreement to the terms and conditions.