Technical Note
Deep-Transfer-Learning Strategies for Crop Yield Prediction
Using Climate Records and Satellite Image Time-Series Data
Abhasha Joshi 1 , Biswajeet Pradhan 1, * , Subrata Chakraborty 1,2 , Renuganth Varatharajoo 3 , Shilpa Gite 4,5
and Abdullah Alamri 6

                                           1   Centre for Advanced Modelling and Geospatial Information Systems (CAMGIS), School of Civil and
                                               Environmental Engineering, Faculty of Engineering & IT, University of Technology Sydney,
                                               Ultimo, NSW 2007, Australia; abhasha.joshi@student.uts.edu.au (A.J.); subrata.chakraborty@une.edu.au (S.C.)
                                           2   School of Science and Technology, Faculty of Science, Agriculture, Business and Law, University of New
                                               England, Armidale, NSW 2351, Australia
                                           3   Department of Aerospace Engineering, University Putra Malaysia (UPM), Serdang 43400, Malaysia;
                                               renu@upm.edu.my
                                           4   Department of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, Symbiosis Institute of Technology,
                                               Pune 412115, India; shilpa.gite@sitpune.edu.in
                                           5   Symbiosis Centre for Applied Artificial Intelligence (SCAAI), Symbiosis Institute of Technology, Symbiosis
                                               International (Deemed University) (SIU), Pune 412115, India
                                           6   Department of Geology and Geophysics, College of Science, King Saud University, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia;
                                               amsamri@ksu.edu.sa
                                           *   Correspondence: biswajeet.pradhan@uts.edu.au or biswajeet24@gmail.com


                                           Abstract: The timely and reliable prediction of crop yields on a larger scale is crucial for ensuring a
                                           stable food supply and food security. In the last few years, many studies have demonstrated that deep
                                           learning can offer reliable solutions for crop yield prediction. However, a key challenge in applying
                                           deep-learning models to crop yield prediction is their reliance on extensive training data, which are
                                           often lacking in many parts of the world. To address this challenge, this study introduces TrAd-
Citation: Joshi, A.; Pradhan, B.;          aBoost.R2, along with fine-tuning and domain-adversarial neural network deep-transfer-learning
Chakraborty, S.; Varatharajoo, R.; Gite,   strategies, for predicting the winter wheat yield across diverse climatic zones in the USA. All methods
S.; Alamri, A. Deep-Transfer-Learning      used the bidirectional LSTM (BiLSTM) architecture to leverage its sequential feature extraction capa-
Strategies for Crop Yield Prediction
                                           bilities. The proposed transfer-learning approaches outperformed the baseline deep-learning model,
Using Climate Records and Satellite
                                           with mean absolute error reductions ranging from 9% to 28%, demonstrating the effectiveness of these
Image Time-Series Data. Remote Sens.
                                           methods. Furthermore, the results demonstrate that the semi-supervised transfer-learning approach
2024, 16, 4804. https://doi.org/
10.3390/rs16244804
                                           using the two-stage version of TrAdaBoost.R2 and fine-tuning achieved a superior performance
                                           compared to the domain-adversarial neural network and standard TrAdaBoost.R2. Additionally, the
Academic Editors: David M Johnson,
                                           study offers insights for improving the accuracy and generalizability of crop yield prediction models
Orly Enrique Apolo-Apolo, Simon
                                           in diverse agricultural landscapes across different regions.
Appeltans, Mino Sportelli and
Nathaniel K. Newlands
                                           Keywords: crop yield prediction; deep learning; transfer learning; TrAdaBoost; Bidirectional LSTM;
Received: 4 September 2024                 fine-tuning; food security
Revised: 13 December 2024
Accepted: 14 December 2024
Published: 23 December 2024

                                           1. Introduction
                                                Ensuring a stable food supply and food security relies heavily on the timely and
Copyright: © 2024 by the authors.          dependable prediction of crop yields at a larger scale [1–4]. Recent advancements in
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.         computing resources and algorithms have enabled the use of more sophisticated data-
This article is an open access article     driven models, like deep learning, for various prediction problems. A large number of
distributed under the terms and            studies have demonstrated that deep learning can offer reliable solutions for crop yield
conditions of the Creative Commons         prediction [5–8]. In particular, sequential models such as long short-term memory (LSTM),
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://      bidirectional LSTM (BiLSTM), and 1D convolutional neural networks (1DCNNs) have
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/           emerged as effective tools for predicting crop yields [9,10].
4.0/).




Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4804. https://doi.org/10.3390/rs16244804                                          https://www.mdpi.com/journal/remotesensing
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4804                                                                                             2 of 15



                                    A key challenge in applying deep-learning models to crop yield prediction is the
                              models’ dependence on large training data [6,10]. Insufficient data can lead to overfitting
                              and underfitting [11,12]. In the former condition, models cannot learn from the training
                              data, while, in the latter, models perform well on training data but poorly on unseen test
                              data. This limitation restricts their use in areas with limited historical yield data. Moreover,
                              a model trained on data from one region may not perform well in entirely new locations
                              because of the domain shift [13]. One of the reasons existing deep-learning-based crop
                              yield prediction research has predominantly focused on specific regions of the world is
                              the availability of abundant historical data in those areas [6]. Typically, remote sensing
                              and environmental data are paired with historical crop yield statistics for regional scale
                              crop yield prediction [14]. While remote sensing and environmental data are globally
                              available due to advancements in satellites and sensors, the target data—historical yield
                              statistics—often lack sufficient quantities and regular intervals in many countries.
                                    Transfer learning emerges as a promising technique for overcoming the difficulties
                              of modelling in scenarios where data are scarce. Transfer-learning [15] techniques use
                              information gained in an area with sufficient data to improve the generalisation in an
                              area with limited training data. Transfer learning has proven effective in various tasks,
                              including image classification [12], crop mapping [16,17], vegetation monitoring [18], and
                              water resource management [19]. In crop yield prediction, researchers are exploring the
                              integration of transfer learning with deep learning to improve model generalizability. For
                              instance, Wang, Tran, Desai, Lobell and Ermon [13] successfully applied deep-learning
                              techniques and fine-tuning-based transfer learning to predict soybean yield in Brazil. The
                              study demonstrated the potential of deep learning and transfer learning for crop yield
                              prediction in data-scarce regions. Ma, et al. [20] addressed the generalizability issue of
                              machine-learning models for crop yield prediction by introducing an unsupervised domain
                              adaptation approach. Their unsupervised adaptive domain adversarial neural network,
                              coupled with multiple input variables, demonstrated remarkable performance in both local
                              and transfer settings, indicating its potential to enhance crop yield prediction across diverse
                              regions. Priyatikanto, et al. [21] investigated the generalizability and transferability of maize
                              yield prediction models across the US corn belt by employing three domain adaptation
                              algorithms: the domain adversarial neural network (DANN), Kullback–Leibler impor-
                              tance estimation procedure, and regular transfer neural network (RTNN). Among these
                              algorithms, the DANN exhibited promising results in model generalisation across regions.
                                    While unsupervised domain adaptation methods like the DANN offer promising
                              results in crop yield prediction without requiring labelled target data [20,21], they may
                              not generalise well to unseen target domains that significantly differ from the source
                              domain. Moreover, feature-based methods like the DANN are not applicable to domain
                              adaptation issues where there is a covariate shift [22]; i.e., when the source and target
                              domains share the same labelling functions, potentially impairing learning. Moreover,
                              limited yield data are available in many regions at infrequent intervals or for specific
                              locations. Thus, semi-supervised transfer-learning techniques might be more suitable in
                              such a scenario. Fine-tuning is one of the widely used semi-supervised transfer-learning
                              methods. However, they are also not without challenges and are susceptible to negative
                              transfer [23]. Simply applying all source domain data to the target domain for fine-tuning,
                              without proper selection, can lead to negative transfer learning.
                                    TrAdaBoost [24], another semi-supervised transfer-learning approach, combines
                              adaptive-boosting and instance-weighting techniques. Adaptive boosting improves predic-
                              tion performance by combining multiple weak learners, while instance weighting assigns
                              different weights to samples from the source and target domains [25]. This approach re-
                              duces the influence of instances prone to negative transfer and allows the model to focus on
                              more reliable and relevant data. When predicting crop yields across significantly different
                              domains, TrAdaBoost can be a valuable tool to mitigate negative transfer and improve
                              model performance.
                              on more reliable and relevant data. When predicting crop yields across significantly dif-
                              ferent domains, TrAdaBoost can be a valuable tool to mitigate negative transfer and im-
                              prove model performance.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4804        This study investigates and compares the eﬀectiveness of various unsupervised and
                                                                                                                   3 of 15
                              semi-supervised transfer learning (TL) methods for predicting crop yield. The main con-
                              tributions of the study are as follows:
                              •    This
                                     Thisstudy
                                           studyintroduced
                                                   investigatesdeep-transfer
                                                                  and compareslearning          (DTL) strategies
                                                                                                          of variousthat
                                                                                     the effectiveness                     combine the
                                                                                                                      unsupervised      and
                                   TrAdaBoost     algorithm     with   a BiLSTM    model    to predict   crop yield  in  data-scarce
                                semi-supervised transfer learning (TL) methods for predicting crop yield. The main contri-             re-
                                   gions.of the study are as follows:
                                butions
                              • • This
                                     Thispaper
                                           studyquantitatively     evaluates thelearning
                                                  introduced deep-transfer          impacts(DTL)
                                                                                               of four  deep-transfer
                                                                                                     strategies                    (DTL)
                                                                                                                         learningthe
                                                                                                                 that combine         TrAd-
                                   strategies:  fine-tuning    (FT),  the  domain-adversarial       neural  network
                                     aBoost algorithm with a BiLSTM model to predict crop yield in data-scarce regions.(DANN),     TrAd-
                                • aBoost.R2,
                                     This paper and   a two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2
                                                   quantitatively                       algorithm
                                                                     evaluates the impacts            on crop
                                                                                                 of four       yield prediction
                                                                                                          deep-transfer    learningacross
                                                                                                                                     (DTL)
                                   diﬀerent   climatic   regions.   These   strategies  leverage    the sequential  feature
                                     strategies: fine-tuning (FT), the domain-adversarial neural network (DANN), TrAd-         extraction
                                     aBoost.R2,of
                                   capabilities   andBiLSTM     for theTrAdaBoost.R2
                                                        a two-stage      task. While previous
                                                                                          algorithmstudies
                                                                                                        on crop  yield employed
                                                                                                            primarily   prediction mul-
                                                                                                                                     across
                                   tilayer  perceptron    networks     as feature  extractors    in their models,   our   study
                                     different climatic regions. These strategies leverage the sequential feature extraction     opts  for
                                   the BiLSTM     model    as the  base   model,  given   the  sequential   nature  of  our
                                     capabilities of BiLSTM for the task. While previous studies primarily employed multi-   input  data.
                                    The    remainder
                                       layer   perceptronof this  paperasisfeature
                                                            networks        organised    as follows:
                                                                                    extractors           Section
                                                                                                  in their        2 details
                                                                                                            models,   our study    proposed
                                                                                                                              the opts    for the
                              method   BiLSTM     model
                                          for yield        as the base
                                                       prediction,       model, given
                                                                      including          the sequential nature
                                                                                   deep-transfer-learning            of our input
                                                                                                                 techniques,     the data.
                                                                                                                                       experi-
                              mentalThe  data,  and implementation
                                             remainder     of this paperdetails.   Our experimental
                                                                           is organised                     results are
                                                                                            as follows: Section           presented
                                                                                                                     2 details         in Sec-
                                                                                                                                the proposed
                              tion  3, and   a discussion    of the results is presented     in  Section  4. Finally,   Section
                                method for yield prediction, including deep-transfer-learning techniques, the experimental      5  concludes
                              the  paper.
                                data,   and implementation details. Our experimental results are presented in Section 3, and
                                a discussion of the results is presented in Section 4. Finally, Section 5 concludes the paper.
                              2. Materials and Methods
                                2. Study
                              2.1. MaterialsAreaand Methods
                                2.1. Study Area
                                    In this study, winter wheat was selected as the study crop, and the winter-wheat-
                              growing  In regions
                                           this study,   winter
                                                     in the  USAwheat      was selected
                                                                   were selected    as studyas the
                                                                                                 areasstudy   crop,
                                                                                                        (Figure  1).and
                                                                                                                      Wheattheranks
                                                                                                                               winter-wheat-
                                                                                                                                       among
                                growing      regions   in the  USA   were  selected   as  study    areas
                              the top three most commonly consumed staple foods globally [26]. The USA was(Figure   1).  Wheat   rankstheamong
                                                                                                                                           sec-
                              ond    top three
                                thelargest         most
                                               wheat      commonly
                                                       exporter   in theconsumed      staple
                                                                          world in 2021,        foods globally
                                                                                            accounting             [26].
                                                                                                            for 13.1        theUSA
                                                                                                                      % ofThe    total was
                                                                                                                                        wheat the
                                second largest
                              exported      [27,28].wheat   exporter
                                                      Moreover,                is theinfourth
                                                                         the world
                                                                   theinUSA              2021, accounting
                                                                                                 largest wheat for 13.1  % of the
                                                                                                                   producer         total
                                                                                                                                after      wheat
                                                                                                                                       China,
                                exported      [27,28].  Moreover,     the  USA   is the  fourth     largest  wheat
                              Russia, and India, and around 8.1% of the global wheat was produced here in 2021. Winterproducer    after   China,
                                Russia,
                              wheat        and India,
                                        varieties,      and around
                                                    planted            8.1% of thefall,
                                                              in the preceding      global    wheat US
                                                                                        dominate            produced
                                                                                                       waswheat          here in 2021.
                                                                                                                  production,            Winter
                                                                                                                                  represent-
                                wheat varieties, planted in the preceding fall, dominate US wheat production, representing
                              ing between 70–80% of total wheat production [29]. Prediction of wheat at a regional scale
                                between 70–80% of total wheat production [29]. Prediction of wheat at a regional scale
                              before harvest and mapping the spatial distribution of the wheat area in the USA are im-
                                before harvest and mapping the spatial distribution of the wheat area in the USA are
                              portant for supply chain management in agribusiness, adapting crop management prac-
                                important for supply chain management in agribusiness, adapting crop management
                              tices and ensuring their and regional food security. In this study, predictions were made
                                practices and ensuring their and regional food security. In this study, predictions were
                              at the county scale.
                                made at the county scale.




                              Figure 1. 1.
                                Figure  Study  area
                                           Study    showing
                                                 area       local
                                                      showing     and
                                                              local   transfer
                                                                    and        location.
                                                                        transfer         The
                                                                                 location.   colored
                                                                                           The       areas
                                                                                               colored     onon
                                                                                                              the
                                                                                                       areas      map
                                                                                                                the   denote
                                                                                                                    map      the
                                                                                                                        denote the
                              study counties.
                                study counties.

                                       Transfer experiments were conducted between different climatic regions within the
                                  USA. Köppen classification maps of the present day [30] were used to identify the climate
                                  classes for each county. The Köppen–Geiger climate classification system categorises cli-
                                  mates into six main groups based on monthly temperature and precipitation data. Each
                                  group has further subdivisions representing variations within the main class. This classifi-
                                  cation system is based on the idea that different climate zones support different types of
                                  vegetation. For the transfer experiments, we selected counties within the arid and temper-
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4804                                                                                         4 of 15



                              ate climate classes as the local area (source domain) and counties within the climate class
                              cold and subclass “no dry season, hot summer” climate as the transfer area (target domain).
                              For the counties that fall under more than one zone in the above map, we classified them
                              as the class in which the majority of the area falls.

                              2.2. Dataset and Pre-Processing
                                   This study utilises remote sensing and weather data as inputs to characterise crop
                              health and growth conditions. Previous studies have shown that time-series remote sensing
                              data and meteorological data are important predictors in regional-scale yield prediction
                              studies [14,31]. Similarly, in transfer learning across different ecological zones for yield
                              prediction, these variables have been found to be applicable [20].
                                   The enhanced vegetation index (EVI) was the remote sensing data used in the study.
                              EVI is a measure of the greenness of vegetation and serves as an indicator of the quantity
                              of healthy vegetation [32]. EVI offers improved sensitivity in high-biomass regions and
                              reduces noise from the canopy background and atmosphere. It has a strong correlation
                              with gross primary production (GPP). The data for the indices were obtained from the
                              MOD13Q1 V6.1 product, a 16-day global 250 m vegetation index and reflectance product
                              of the moderate-resolution imaging spectroradiometer (MODIS). Only pixels with good-
                              quality data (DetailedQA = 0) were used to obtain the time-series data, ignoring data with
                              snow or cloud cover.
                                   EVI is calculated as follows:
                                                                           (NIR − Red)
                                                    EVI = 2.5 ×                                                        (1)
                                                                  NIR + C1 × Red − C2 × Blue + L
                              where NIR, Red, and Blue are reflectance acquired in the near-infrared (841–876 nm), red
                              (620–670 nm), and blue (459–479 nm) portions of the electromagnetic spectrum, respectively.
                              The variable L accounts for soil and canopy background effects, while C1 and C2 are
                              coefficients used to correct atmospheric influences. The standard values used are L = 1,
                              C1 = 6, and C2 = 7.5.
                                    For weather information, we used Terraclimate [33], which is global weather data at
                              monthly intervals prepared by combining the WorldClim dataset with Climatic Research
                              Unit (CRU) Ts4.0 and the Japanese 55-year Reanalysis (JRA55) data. The spatial resolution
                              of the data is 1/24th degree (∼4.6 km). The data used in the study are downward surface
                              shortwave radiation, wind speed maximum temperature, and soil moisture. This climatic
                              variable showed a high correlation with crop yield [31]. All the above-mentioned input
                              data are available globally for any part of the world.
                                    The study predicted the end-of-season yield for winter wheat in the study counties.
                              Winter-wheat-growing season in the study is from September–October to May–July in the
                              following year [34]. EVI and weather data from October of the plantation year to June of
                              the harvest year were selected as input data for the predictive models.
                                    We employed Google Earth Engine (GEE) for data collection and pre-processing. The
                              model used monthly EVI and weather data as input. The 16-day EVI data were converted
                              to monthly time-series data using a weighted average scheme, where the weights were
                              based on the degree of temporal overlap. For each input feature, we used the crop map
                              to eliminate irrelevant observations from non-winter-wheat areas. Subsequently, within
                              each administrative unit (county), we extracted all relevant features and aggregated each
                              feature to the administrative division level by calculating the mean value of all extracted
                              pixels within that county.
                                    Target yield data, consisting of county-level winter wheat yields, were obtained from
                              the National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS) QuickStats database of the United
                              States Department of Agriculture [29]. These data were used to train and test the crop
                              yield prediction model. All yields were reported in units of metric tonnes per cultivated
                              hectare (t/Ha). Winter wheat yields in the transfer area have been generally higher than
                              in the local area during the study period. The Cropland Data Layer (CDL) was used to
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4804                                                                                                         5 of 15



                               delineate the annual cultivation areas of winter wheat within each county. The CDL is an
                               annual georeferenced, crop-specific land cover map dataset produced by the USDA-NASS.
                               The CDL is derived from moderate-resolution satellite imagery combined with extensive
                               agricultural ground truth data [35] to achieve a spatial resolution of 30 m.

                               2.3. Transfer Learning
                                        The idea of using knowledge from one task to improve learning on another is not
                                   new and has existed under different names like inductive transfer [36], multi-task learn-
                                   ing [37], and incremental/cumulative learning [38]. However, the rise of deep learning
                                   has significantly increased the popularity of transfer learning. Deep neural networks
                                   need massive datasets for training, which can be expensive and time-consuming to ac-
                                   quire. Transfer learning helps address this challenge. The goal of transfer learning is
                                   to learn knowledge using data from the source domain that can also be applied to the
                                   target domain (Figure 2). Transfer-learning approaches can be broadly categorised into
                                   four types: instance-based, parameter-based, relation-based, and feature-based [39]. The
                                   instance-based transfer-learning approach adjusts the weights of certain data from the
                                   source domain and combines them with a few labelled data from the target domain to make
                                   predictions in the target domain. Parameter-based transfer learning takes some parameters
                                   or prior distributions of hyperparameters from the pre-trained model from the source
                                   domain as a starting point. The model’s parameters are then fine-tuned on the target data
                                   to improve performance on the new task. Feature-based transfer-learning methods aim to
                                   discover effective feature representations to minimise domain differences and reduce errors
                                   in classification or regression models. Relational-based transfer learning is specifically
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                   6 of 16
                                   designed for tasks where data can be represented by relationships between entities. This
                                   approach focuses on transferring the logical relationship or rules learned between domains.




                                Figure2.2.Transfer
                               Figure                learningfor
                                                               forcrop
                                           Transferlearning              yield
                                                                    cropyield   prediction.
                                                                              prediction.    For
                                                                                           For   unsupervised
                                                                                               unsupervised    transfer
                                                                                                            transfer    learning,
                                                                                                                     learning, we we   assume
                                                                                                                                   assume
                                thereare
                               there  areno   yielddata
                                           noyield           thetarget
                                                    dataininthe   targetarea,
                                                                         area,and,
                                                                               and,forfor semi-supervised
                                                                                        semi-supervised   scenarios,
                                                                                                        scenarios,    limited
                                                                                                                   limited    historical
                                                                                                                           historical    yield
                                                                                                                                      yield
                                dataare
                               data  areavailable
                                          availableininthe
                                                        thetarget
                                                            targetlocation.
                                                                    location.

                                     In thisTrAdaBoost
                                      The                 algorithm,
                                             study, we used             proposed byapproaches:
                                                              four transfer-learning                 Xue and Yu [24],
                                                                                        Dai, Yang, instance-based            is a transfer-
                                                                                                                        TrAdaBoost.R2
                                learning
                               and         algorithm
                                     two-stage         originally developed
                                                 TrAdaBoost.R2,                  for the
                                                                     feature-based    domain-adversarial         It assumes
                                                                                         classification field.neural           that certain
                                                                                                                         network,   and
                               parameter-based
                                source domain data fine-tuning.
                                                        may beAcross
                                                                 eﬀective        learningBiLSTM
                                                                             approaches,
                                                                         all for                     was utilised
                                                                                            in the target   domain,     the base
                                                                                                                     as while     model.
                                                                                                                               others   may
                                     The  TrAdaBoost     algorithm,    proposed    by  Dai,  Yang,  Xue   and  Yu   [24],
                                not and could even be detrimental. It is based on “reverse boosting”. During each boostingis a  transfer-
                               learning
                                iteration,algorithm
                                            TrAdaBoostoriginally developed
                                                          strategically        for instance
                                                                         adjusts             weights.field.
                                                                                   the classification   When It aassumes    that certain
                                                                                                                  target instance    is mis-
                               source   domain
                                classified,       data may
                                             its weight  is increased,    for learning the
                                                             be effectiveencouraging      in the targettodomain,
                                                                                               model       focus on while
                                                                                                                       theseothers  may
                                                                                                                               challenging
                                examples. Conversely, misclassified source instances experience a decrease in weight.
                                This approach helps TrAdaBoost identify and utilise source data points that are most rel-
                                evant to the target domain while disregarding those that are significantly diﬀerent. Build-
                                ing upon the principles of AdaBoost.R2 and TrAdaBoost, Pardoe and Stone [40] proposed
                                TrAdaBoost.R2, an instance-based regression transfer algorithm. This algorithm combines
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4804                                                                                           6 of 15



                              not and could even be detrimental. It is based on “reverse boosting”. During each boosting
                              iteration, TrAdaBoost strategically adjusts instance weights. When a target instance is
                              misclassified, its weight is increased, encouraging the model to focus on these challenging
                              examples. Conversely, misclassified source instances experience a decrease in weight. This
                              approach helps TrAdaBoost identify and utilise source data points that are most relevant
                              to the target domain while disregarding those that are significantly different. Building
                              upon the principles of AdaBoost.R2 and TrAdaBoost, Pardoe and Stone [40] proposed
                              TrAdaBoost.R2, an instance-based regression transfer algorithm. This algorithm combines
                              the source and target datasets into a single set and handles the reweighting of each training
                              instance independently. TrAdaBoost.R2 can become susceptible to overfitting as the number
                              of boosting iterations increases and decreases in accuracy beyond a certain point. To address
                              this limitation, the authors also introduced the two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2 algorithm. Two-
                              stage TrAdaBoost.R2 assigns weights to the instances in two steps. In the first stage, the
                              algorithm gradually reduces the weights of source data points until reaching a threshold
                              determined by cross-validation. This effectively minimises the influence of potentially
                              irrelevant source data on the model. In stage 2, source instance weights are frozen, while
                              target instance weights are updated according to the standard AdaBoost.R2 procedure.
                              Importantly, only the hypotheses generated in the second stage are retained and used to
                              determine the output of the resulting model. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first
                              study in which these instance-based methods are applied for crop yield prediction.
                                    Another transfer-learning strategy used in this study is fine-tuning [41]. Fine-tuning
                              involves pre-training a model on a data-rich source domain and then refining it with a
                              few labelled samples from a target domain. First, the base neural network is trained on
                              the source domain. Usually, the weights of some of the layers of the trained network are
                              frozen while others are made trainable. One common approach is to freeze the initial
                              few layers responsible for feature extraction of the trained deep-learning model while the
                              predictor part of the model is fine-tuned using data from the target domain. In this study, a
                              transferable BiLSTM model was constructed by keeping the weights of the BiLSTM layers
                              unchanged while fine-tuning the weights of the dense layers of the model.
                                    The final transfer-learning method employed in this study is the DANN [42]. It is an
                              unsupervised technique designed to extract domain-invariant features, meaning features
                              that are relevant to the learning task and remain applicable even when the source and
                              target domains have different data distributions. DANN integrates an adversarial compo-
                              nent to align the feature distributions across domains, thereby enhancing the network’s
                              generalisation capabilities. DANN typically consists of three main components: the feature
                              extractor, domain classifier, and regressor. The feature extractor is responsible for learning
                              features from the input data. A domain classifier is a network that takes the extracted
                              features and attempts to predict whether the data originated from the source or target
                              domain. This is trained in an adversarial setting. By minimising the domain classifier’s
                              ability to distinguish between domains, the model attempts to make the features extracted
                              by the first component indistinguishable between domains. Finally, a regressor utilises the
                              extracted features to perform the main learning task, such as predicting yield.

                              2.4. BiLSTM Model
                                   The BiLSTM model was selected as the base model in all the transfer-learning ap-
                              proaches. BiLSTM has proven effective in processing time-series remote sensing data for
                              various tasks, including crop detection [43], data imputation [44], and change detection [45].
                              BiLSTM is a recurrent neural network (RNN) used for processing sequential data [46,47].
                              It builds upon long short-term memory (LSTM) [48] and is designed to better capture
                              long-term dependencies by addressing the vanishing-gradient problem in RNNs. Unlike
                              standard LSTMs, which process data in a single direction, a BiLSTM model consists of two
                              LSTM components. One LSTM processes the data in the forward direction, while the other
                              processes it in the backward direction. This allows BiLSTM to effectively capture features
                              from sequential data. The model selected for this study consists of two Bidirectional LSTM
                               ture long-term dependencies by addressing the vanishing-gradient problem in RNNs. Un-
                               like standard LSTMs, which process data in a single direction, a BiLSTM model consists
                               of two LSTM components. One LSTM processes the data in the forward direction, while
                               the other processes it in the backward direction. This allows BiLSTM to eﬀectively capture
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4804                                                                                       7 of 15
                               features from sequential data. The model selected for this study consists of two      Bidirec-
                               tional LSTM (BiLSTM) layers followed by three Dense layers. Additionally, a Dropout
                               layer is inserted between each of the BiLSTM and Dense layers to help mitigate overfitting
                              (BiLSTM) layers followed by three Dense layers. Additionally, a Dropout layer is inserted
                               (Figure 3).
                              between each of the BiLSTM and Dense layers to help mitigate overfitting (Figure 3).




                              Figure3.3.Architecture
                              Figure     Architectureofof the
                                                        the   base
                                                            base   BiLSTM
                                                                 BiLSTM   model.
                                                                        model.

                              2.5.
                              2.5.Experimental
                                   ExperimentalSetup
                                                Setup
                                   In this study, the model trained using data from the local area was adapted for
                                    In this study, the model trained using data from the local area was adapted for pre-
                              prediction on the transfer area using transfer learning. The Koppen classification data
                               diction on the transfer area using transfer learning. The Koppen classification data divided
                              divided the wheat-growing counties of the USA into local and transfer areas. Details
                               the wheat-growing counties of the USA into local and transfer areas. Details regarding
                              regarding these areas are provided in the study area section. The years 2019 and 2020 were
                               these areas
                              selected      areyears
                                                provided
                                       as test                        the area
                                                            in the study
                                                     for evaluating            section. The approaches.
                                                                          transfer-learning years 2019 and
                                                                                                        Data2020 were
                                                                                                                    2008selected
                                                                                                              from       to
                              the year preceding the test year were used for model training. The pre-processed dataset
                              consisted of a total of 6121 data points from the local area and 2225 data points from the
                              transfer area. Specifically, for the years 2019 and 2020, the number of data points from the
                              transfer area used to test the model were 104 and 197, respectively.
                                   For the semi-supervised transfer-learning approaches (TrAdaBoost.R2, two-stage
                              TrAdaBoost.R2, and Fine-Tuning), a subset comprising 10% of the available input–target
                              pairs from the transfer area covering the training period was utilised for transfer learning.
                              In contrast, the unsupervised DANN approach utilised all unlabelled input features from
                              the transfer area within the training period. For instance, to predict yields for 2019, the
                              semi-supervised deep-transfer-learning models were trained using input–target data pairs
                              from 2008 to 2018 from the local area, along with 10% of the input–target data pairs from
                              the transfer area for the same period. Meanwhile, the DANN model used input–target
                              data pairs from 2008 to 2018 from the local area and all unlabelled input variables from the
                              transfer area during the same period.
                                   We also compared the results of the transfer-learning approach with those of the base
                              Bi-LSTM model and a Random Forest model trained exclusively on local area data and
                              then directly applied to predict yield in the transfer area. Random Forest [49] is a widely
                              used algorithm that has been found to provide robust performance across a range of tasks,
                              including crop yield prediction [31].
                                   To identify optimal hyperparameters for each model, we employed a grid search
                              technique, and data from 2008 to 2018 were used. The hyperparameter search space and
                              selected hyperparameter for different models are presented in Table 1. The models were
                              implemented within the Python 3.10.6 environment, utilising the TensorFlow framework.
                              The ADAPT [50] library was also used for implementing transfer-learning approaches.
                              Training leveraged a high-performance computing (HPC) server featuring an Intel Xeon
                              Gold 6238R processor clocked at 2.2GHz with 28 cores, 180GB RAM (Six Channel), and a
                              robust NVIDIA Quadro RTX 6000 Passive GPU, boasting 4608 cores, 576 Tensor Cores, and
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4804                                                                                                8 of 15



                                 24GB of memory. The experiment for each model was repeated ten times, and the mean
                                 results are presented in the paper.

                                 Table 1. Hyperparameter for different models.

                Method                           Parameter                       Search Space             Selected Parameters
                                                  Lambda              0.0001, 0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 1, 2, 5          0.01
                                               Learning rate                0.01, 0.001, 0.0001                 0.0001
                 DANN
                                                   Epoch                     50, 100, 150, 200                   150
                                                 Batch size                         50, 100                       50
                                               Learning rate                      0.01, 0.001                    0.01
      TrAdaBoost.R2, two-stage
                                                   Epoch                           100, 150                      100
          TrAdaBoost.R2
                                                 Batch size                         50,100                       100
                                               Epoch (main)                      50, 100, 150                    100
                                          Learning rate (main)              0.01, 0.001, 0.0001                  0.001
                                              Batch size (main)                     50, 100                      100
              Fine-tuning
                                              Epoch (fine tune)           50, 100, 200, 400, 800                 100
                                        Learning rate (fine tune)           0.01, 0.001, 0.0001                  0.001
                                          Batch size (Fine tune)                  20, 50, 100                     20
                                              Number of Trees                10, 100, 200, 500                   100
                                                 Bootstrap                        True, False                    True
            Random Forest                        Max depth                       None, 10, 20                   None
                                         Minimum sample leaf                        1, 2, 4                       2
                                         Minimum sample split                       2, 5, 10                      5


                                 2.6. Performance Evaluation
                                      In this experiment, we utilised the coefficient of determination (R2 ) and mean absolute
                                 error (MAE) to assess the performance of the model. The R2 is expressed as a fraction and
                                 represents the degree of agreement between the true value and the predicted value, mea-
                                 suring the proportion of variance in the dependent variable explained by the independent
                                 variable. MAE is the average absolute difference between the predicted values and the
                                 actual value.
                                                                            1 n
                                                                   MAE = ∑i=1 Yi − Ŷi                                      (2)
                                                                            n
                                                                                            2
                                                                    2        ∑in=1 Yi − Ŷi
                                                                   R = 1−                  2                               (3)
                                                                              ∑in=1 Yi − Y
                                 where Yi denotes the actual yield values, Ŷi represents the predicted yield values, and Ȳ
                                 denotes the mean of the actual yield values.

                                 3. Results
                                      In this study, various transfer-learning techniques were employed with BiLSTM mod-
                                 els for winter wheat yield prediction across different climatic zones in the USA. The
                                 performance of these methods was evaluated based on MAE and R2 values over the years
                                 2019 and 2020. The boxplot (Figure 4) illustrates the distribution of winter wheat yields for
                                 local and transfer areas over the 13-year period (2008–2020). The transfer area exhibited
                                 generally higher winter wheat yields than the local area.
                                     models for winter wheat yield prediction across different climatic zones in the USA
                                     performance of these methods was evaluated based on MAE and R2 values over the
                                     2019 and 2020. The boxplot (Figure 4) illustrates the distribution of winter wheat
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4804          for local and transfer areas over the 13-year period (2008–2020). The transfer
                                                                                                               9 of 15area exh
                                     generally higher winter wheat yields than the local area.




                                     Figure 4.4.Comparison
                                     Figure      Comparisonof crop        between
                                                                   yieldsyields
                                                               of crop            transfer transfer
                                                                                between                                 2020. 2008 to 2020.
                                                                                                                areastofrom
                                                                                                           from 2008
                                                                                                     areaslocal
                                                                                           and local and

                                           Table 2 summarises the results obtained from different transfer-learning approaches.
                                            Tableof2Rsummarises
                                     The mean                         the results
                                                      2 for the test years          obtained
                                                                           for the baseline      from model
                                                                                              BiLSTM    different   transfer-learning
                                                                                                                without using transfer appro
                                                                                             2 value implies that the model explains
                                     The mean of R for the test years for the baseline BiLSTM model without using tr
                                     learning  was   0.19,
                                                         2 and the  MAE    was  0.55. The  R
                                     only 19% of
                                     learning      the variance
                                                 was   0.19, and in yield in the transfer
                                                                    the MAE      was 0.55.location,
                                                                                               The Rsuggesting             maythe
                                                                                                                 the modelthat
                                                                                                      2 value implies               be
                                                                                                                                not model ex
                                     used directly for yield prediction in the transfer location. The Random Forest model also
                                     only 19% of the variance in yield in the transfer location, suggesting the2 model m
                                     showed poor performance in the transfer location, with a mean MAE of 0.55 and an R of
                                     0.24,used
                                     be         directly
                                           indicating       for yield
                                                       a limited        prediction
                                                                  predictive           infor
                                                                              capability        transfer
                                                                                          theyield in that location.
                                                                                                            region.    The Random Forest
                                     also showed poor performance in the transfer location, with a mean MAE of 0.55 a
                                     R 2 of 2.
                                     Table     R2 and
                                             0.24,  indicating  a limited
                                                      MAE of different modelspredictive
                                                                              in transfer location for testfor
                                                                                            capability         yield in that region.
                                                                                                            years.

                                                                              2019                                2020
                                  Transfer Method
                                                                    MAE                 R2              MAE                 R2
                                    Random Forest                    0.56              0.28              0.55              0.20
        1                     Bi-LSTM Model Without TL               0.53              0.22              0.57              0.16
        2                             Fine tuning                    0.45              0.45              0.41              0.55
        3                               DANN                         0.47              0.41              0.52              0.26
        4                           TrAdaBoost.R2                    0.45              0.41              0.46              0.49
        5                      Two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2               0.41              0.51              0.42              0.53


                                           The unsatisfactory performance of the models without transfer learning suggests that
                                     the relationship learned between the input features and crop yield in the local area is not
                                     generalisable to the target domain. The low-dimensional visualisation of the input data of
                                     local and transfer locations using t-distributed stochastic embedding (t-SNE) [51] shows
                                     distinct clusters for the data for the local and transfer area (Figure 5a), suggesting different
                                     distributions of input variables in the local and transfer area. The distribution of yield
                                     in the transfer and local area also differs (Figure 5b). The mean, median, and standard
                                     deviation across all years and counties within the local area are 3.22 t/ha, 3.26 t/ha, and
                                     1.23 t/ha, respectively, while those for the transfer area are 3.74 t/ha, 3.70 t/ha, and
                                     0.96 t/ha, respectively.
                              distinct clusters for the data for the local and transfer area (Figure 5a), suggesting diﬀerent
                              distributions of input variables in the local and transfer area. The distribution of yield in
                              the transfer and local area also diﬀers (Figure 5b). The mean, median, and standard devi-
                              ation across all years and counties within the local area are 3.22 t/ha, 3.26 t/ha, and 1.23
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4804   t/ha, respectively, while those for the transfer area are 3.74 t/ha, 3.70 t/ha, and 0.96     t/ha,
                                                                                                                     10 of 15
                              respectively.




                               Figure5.5.Distribution
                              Figure      Distributionofofdata
                                                           dataininlocal
                                                                    localand
                                                                          andtransfer    area. (a)
                                                                               transferarea.    (a)T-SNE
                                                                                                    T-SNEplot
                                                                                                            plotof
                                                                                                                 ofinput
                                                                                                                    input variables,
                                                                                                                           variables, and
                                                                                                                                      and (b)
                              histograms   showing
                               (b) histograms  showingthethe
                                                          winter  wheat
                                                             winter               distribution of
                                                                           yielddistribution
                                                                     wheatyield                    countiesininthe
                                                                                                of counties          local
                                                                                                                thelocal   area
                                                                                                                         area   and
                                                                                                                              and    transfer
                                                                                                                                  transfer
                              area
                               areafrom
                                    from2008
                                          2008 to
                                                to 2020.
                                                   2020.

                                    Compared
                                      Compared to the baselinebaselineBi-LSTM
                                                                         Bi-LSTMmodelmodel andand   Random
                                                                                                Random         Forest
                                                                                                            Forest modelmodel    without
                                                                                                                             without        trans-
                                                                                                                                      transfer
                              fer learning,
                                learning,   all all transfer-learning
                                                transfer-learning          approaches
                                                                      approaches          showed
                                                                                     showed          improvements
                                                                                               improvements       in both   both
                                                                                                                         in the   the MAE
                                                                                                                                 MAE   and R2and
                              Rvalues
                                2 values (Table
                                           (Table     TheThe
                                                  2). 2).   DANNDANN improved
                                                                          improvedthe results  for both
                                                                                       the results    for years  with awith
                                                                                                                         meanaMAE
                                                                                                          both years              meanofMAE0.50 of
                                andand 2
                                     R of
                              0.50        R20.34   for test
                                             of 0.34        years.
                                                        for test     All semi-supervised
                                                                 years.  All semi-supervised transfer-learning    approaches
                                                                                                    transfer-learning            demonstrate
                                                                                                                          approaches     demon-
                                notable   improvement         in performance.     In particular,   fine-tuning   and
                              strate notable improvement in performance. In particular, fine-tuning and the two-stage  the  two-stage   TrAd-
                                aBoost.R2 approach
                              TrAdaBoost.R2                achieved
                                                     approach         the bestthe
                                                                   achieved                similar
                                                                                      had and
                                                                                 andbest         had performance.    Fine-tuning Fine-tuning
                                                                                                                                    achieved
                                                                                                        similar performance.
                                a mean    MAE      of 0.43  and   a  mean   R 2 of 0.50, and the two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2 achieved
                              achieved a mean MAE of 0.43 and2 a mean R2 of 0.50, and the two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2
                                a mean MAE of 0.42 and a mean R of 0.52. The standard TrAdaBoost.R2 technique also
                              achieved a mean MAE of 0.42 and a mean R2 of 0.52. The standard TrAdaBoost.R2 tech-
                                achieved a comparable performance to both methods, with a mean MAE of 0.46 and a mean
                              nique   also achieved a comparable performance to both methods, with a mean MAE of 0.46
                                R2 of 0.45. Therefore, for the same base model and hyperparameter setting, the two-stage
                              and   a  mean R2 of
                                TrAdaBoost.R2           0.45. Therefore,
                                                     performs    better than      the same basefor
                                                                             forTrAdaBoost.R2        model    and hyperparameter
                                                                                                        crop yield  prediction. Moreover, setting,
                              the  two-stage
                                compared          TrAdaBoost.R2
                                              to other    models, theperforms
                                                                          two-stage better  than TrAdaBoost.R2
                                                                                      TrAdaBoost.R2                     for crop
                                                                                                           had a consistent        yield predic-
                                                                                                                                performance
                              tion. Moreover,        compared      to other  models,    the  two-stage    TrAdaBoost.R2
                                through the years. However, the computational time for the two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2              had a consistent
                                                                                                                                              is
                              performance        through     the years.   However,
                                significantly higher than that of other approaches.   the  computational       time  for  the  two-stage    TrAd-
                              aBoost.R2
                                      Figure    6 presents thehigher
                                            is significantly        spatialthan  that of other
                                                                             distribution   of theapproaches.
                                                                                                     mean of the absolute error for the
                                    Figure
                                winter   wheat 6 presents      the spatial
                                                   yield prediction          distribution
                                                                        in the  years 2019 andof the   mean
                                                                                                   2020.      of the
                                                                                                          Darker       absolute
                                                                                                                   colours         errorlarger
                                                                                                                              indicate    for the
                              winter wheat yield prediction in the years 2019 and 2020. Darker colours indicate larger
                                absolute   errors   for  each  model.   The  spatial  distribution   of the  absolute  error   shows  clusters
                               of highly erroneous counties in the DANN method. The two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2 and
                               fine-tuning methods show a lower absolute error across all the study areas. Similarly, in the
                               scatterplot (Figure 7), both the two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2 and fine-tuning methods exhibited
                               the highest level of agreement between the reported and predicted yield. The scatterplot
                               also reveals that the DANN generally exhibited underprediction. The mean yields for the
                               transfer location in the test years 2019 and 2020 were 4.0 t/ha and 3.8 t/ha, respectively,
                               which is substantially higher than the mean yield in the local area during the study period
                               (3.26 t/ha). The difference in yield distribution in the transfer and local areas is also evident
                               in the boxplot presenting the yield in the transfer and local areas (Figure 4). Since the
                               DANN was not trained on yield data from the transfer location, this likely explains the
                               underprediction. However, to a lesser extent, fine-tuning also showed underprediction,
                               indicating that it was similarly unable to adequately learn the yield distribution from the
                               limited data available from the transfer location. The two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2 exhibited
                               the least occurrence of this issue. The scatterplot of TrAdaBoost.R2 (Figure 7(b1,b2)) shows
                               several points arranged in a straight line parallel to the reported yield axis. This pattern
                               indicates that, for a range of different reported yields, the model predicted similar yields,
                               suggesting an issue of overfitting.
                                  4). Since the DANN was not trained on yield data from the transfer location, this likely
                                  explains  theindicating
                                  prediction,                that it was
                                                 underprediction.     However,     to a unable
                                                                           similarly              to adequately
                                                                                        lesser extent,   fine-tuning    alsothe
                                                                                                                     learn       yield distribu-
                                                                                                                              showed   under-
                                  tion from the
                                  prediction,       limitedthat
                                                indicating    datait available
                                                                     was similarly       the transfer
                                                                                 fromunable              location.
                                                                                                 to adequately        Thethe
                                                                                                                   learn    two-stage   TrAda-
                                                                                                                               yield distribu-
                                  tion  from exhibited
                                  Boost.R2     the limited            occurrence
                                                               leastavailable
                                                          thedata              fromofthe       issue. The
                                                                                         thistransfer        scatterplot
                                                                                                        location.           of TrAdaBoost.R2
                                                                                                                    The two-stage     TrAda-
                                  (Figure 7(b1,b2))
                                  Boost.R2   exhibited shows    several
                                                         the least       points arranged
                                                                     occurrence                in a straight
                                                                                    of this issue.              line parallel
                                                                                                      The scatterplot           to the reported
                                                                                                                         of TrAdaBoost.R2
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4804                                                                                                                 11 of 15
                                  (Figure  7(b1,b2))
                                  yield axis.         shows several
                                                This pattern   indicates  that, arranged
                                                                        points    for a range in aofstraight
                                                                                                     differentline
                                                                                                                 reported     to the reported
                                                                                                                    parallelyields,  the model
                                  yield  axis. similar
                                  predicted    This pattern
                                                       yields,indicates  that,anfor
                                                                 suggesting          a range
                                                                                   issue        of diﬀerent reported yields, the model
                                                                                          of overfitting.
                                  predicted similar yields, suggesting an issue of overfitting.




                                  Figure 6. The absolute error maps of (a) DANN, (b) TrAdaBoost.R2, (c) two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2,
                                 Figure
                                  Figure 6. The  absoluteerror           (a)DANN,
                                                                maps of(a)
                                                          errormaps          DANN, (b)(b) TrAdaBoost.R2,(c) (c) two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2,
                                             The absolute
                                  and (d)6.fine-tuning-based transfer of
                                                                      models  averaged  TrAdaBoost.R2,
                                                                                        over the years 2019  and 2020.TrAdaBoost.R2,
                                                                                                            two-stage
                                 and (d) fine-tuning-based   transfer models  averaged   over the years 2019   and
                                  and (d) fine-tuning-based transfer models averaged over the years 2019 and 2020. 2020.




                                  Figure 7.
                                  Figure      Scatterplot presents
                                                           presentsthe
                                          7. Scatterplot                               betweenreported
                                                                                               reportedand
                                                                    the relationshipbetween                 predictedyields
                                                                                                        andpredicted   yields  across four
                                 Figure  7. Scatterplot    presents therelationship
                                                                         relationship between   reported and                 across
                                                                                                              predicted yields      four
                                                                                                                                 across four
                                  transfer  learning  techniques:  (a) two-stage  TrAdaBoost.R2,  (b) TrAdaBoost.R2, (c) fine tuning,
                                  transfer learning techniques: (a) two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2, (b) TrAdaBoost.R2, (c) fine tuning, and   and
                                 transfer  learning
                                      DANN over
                                  (d) DANN            techniques:
                                               over testing
                                                     testingyears  (a)      and(2)
                                                                       2019and
                                                                   (1)2019
                                                             years(1)  two-stage   TrAdaBoost.R2,
                                                                                     2020.
                                                                                 (2)2020.          (b) TrAdaBoost.R2,  (c) fine tuning,  and
                                  (d)
                                 (d) DANN over testing years (1) 2019 and (2) 2020.

                                      To investigate the impact of BiLSTM layers on learning transferable features by the
                                 transfer model, we conducted two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2 experiments without incorporating
                                 BiLSTM layers. The experiment employed the architecture comprising the final three Dense
                                 layers (including the output layer) with Dropout layers between them. We run these
                                 experiments 10 times and averaged the results. As depicted in Table 3, transfer models
                                 with BiLSTM layers outperformed those without, both in terms of MAE and R2 for the test
                                 years. Additionally, we tried using two more Dense layers instead of a BiLSTM layer, but
                                 the performance was significantly worse, so we did not include those results.

                                 Table 3. Comparison of performance of two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2 with and without BiLSTM layers.

                                                                                 2019                                      2020
                              Transfer Method
                                                                      MAE                    R2                 MAE                    R2
                    Two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2 with BiLSTM
        1                                                              0.41                 0.51                 0.42                 0.53
                         component in the base layer
                      Two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2 without
        2                                                              0.49                 0.33                 0.55                 0.29
                     BiLSTM component in the base layer


                                 4. Discussion
                                      While deep learning and machine learning offer powerful tools for modelling complex,
                                 nonlinear relationships between input features and crop yield [5,14], these models are often
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4804                                                                                           12 of 15



                              limited by their domain-specific nature. As a result, they may not generalise well to different
                              regions with varying data distributions. For instance, the study by Ma, Zhang, Yang and
                              Yang [20] observed a decline in the performance of RF and MLP models when trained
                              on data from a specific region and applied to a different region. A similar observation
                              was found in our study, where models trained without transfer learning (base RF and
                              Bi-LSTM) showed poor performance when applied to the transfer location. We employed
                              transfer learning techniques to address this limitation, which demonstrated significant
                              improvements in model performance with reductions in MAE ranging from 9% to 28%.
                                    The results showed that the fine-tuning and two-stage version of TrAdaboost.R2
                              exhibited superior performance for crop yield prediction in areas with limited training data.
                              Fine-tuning utilises feature extractors trained on different data, enabling the model to adapt
                              efficiently to new tasks or domains by leveraging existing knowledge [41]. TrAdaboost.R2,
                              which is an instance-based transfer learning method, iteratively assigns weights to the data
                              points based on their contribution to prediction. However, the instance-based Kullback-
                              Leibler Importance Estimation Procedure showed inferior performance for the maise yield
                              prediction in transfer locations, likely due to overfitting [21]. In our study, the scatterplot
                              of TrAdaBoost.R2 (Figure 7(b1,b2)) shows a pattern indicative of the model overly fitting
                              the training data. The two-stage version of TrAdaBoost.R2 likely addresses the overfitting
                              concerns raised by using a staged approach for updating weights. Unsupervised domain
                              adaptation has also proven to be effective for yield prediction in prior studies [52]. However,
                              the DANN method did not perform satisfactorily in our study, particularly for the year
                              2020. This could be attributed to a greater domain shift in our dataset, as indicated by
                              the lower R2 values of the base models in our study compared to the R2 values of the
                              base models in the transfer locations reported in those studies. Also, limited historical
                              yield statistics are available in many regions, so effectively using the available data with a
                              semi-supervised transfer learning method is reasonable.
                                    The robustness of this study lies in its application of an advanced feature extractor,
                              the BiLSTM, unlike previous studies that have mostly relied on the multilayer perceptron.
                              The study demonstrated that the Two-stage Tradaboost model with a Bi-LSTM base layer
                              outperformed the MLP-based version in terms of R2 and MAE across both test years (Table 3),
                              indicating superior feature learning capabilities of the Bi-LSTM in this context. The transfer
                              learning model with BiLSTM achieved a 16% and 23% reduction in MAE compared to
                              the transfer learning model with MLP for the two test years. Advanced deep learning
                              models, such as LSTM and 1D-CNN, have already demonstrated their effectiveness in yield
                              prediction, outperforming MLP based approaches [6,9,13,53]. The findings of our study
                              suggest that these techniques can provide superior feature representation, in the context
                              of transfer learning for yield prediction as well. Particularly, BiLSTM provides a deeper
                              understanding of context by processing sequences in both directions and then combining
                              these analyses into a single, enhanced representation [44,47]. Additionally, we employed
                              Köppen climate classification data to select distinct areas for source and target locations.
                                    Furthermore, the study indicated that combining fine-tuning with the instance-based
                              two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2 method can lead to a robust transfer-learning approach for yield
                              prediction. The two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2 method assigns weights to source data based on
                              its contribution to the prediction, rather than treating all data equally. This approach is
                              particularly valuable when extracting information from multi-source domains with distinct
                              characteristics. Fine tuning updates the model’s parameters (weights) using data from the
                              transfer location. Both approaches were found to be effective in our study, and we could
                              potentially combine them to complement each other.
                                    However, it is also important to acknowledge that there are challenges in implementing
                              the approach proposed in this study in certain regions. Firstly, we used MODIS data with
                              a spatial resolution of 250 m for vegetation indices, which is suitable for county-level
                              yield prediction in countries with larger agricultural farms. However, these data may
                              suffer from mixed pixel issues [54] in areas with smaller farms, which is common in many
                              developing countries. One potential solution to this issue is to utilise higher-resolution data
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4804                                                                                                       13 of 15



                              such as Sentinel and Landsat imagery. Another challenge is that this method also requires
                              crop-type data to extract input variables from the area of a particular crop class only. While
                              this study utilises the Cropland Data Layer, such data are not available in many countries.
                              Experimentation with global low-resolution data and static crop-type maps in areas where
                              there is not a significant deviation in farming practices could be a potential solution. It
                              is also important to note that the target region is significantly affected by cloud cover.
                              Consequently, a considerable portion of the data has been removed, leading to data loss.
                              Approximately 35% of the data points from the study area were excluded from this study
                              due to missing EVI values for one or more of the analysed months. Future studies should
                              quantify the impact of noisy remote sensing data and explore alternative strategies like
                              using the interpolation or imputation of missing data techniques to mitigate these data gaps.
                              Additionally, this study integrated remote sensing and weather data for yield prediction.
                              Other variables, such as soil fertility, crop cultivar types, and management practices, may
                              not be fully captured by remote sensing data but these factors could improve the accuracy
                              of yield predictions, particularly when modelling larger areas with distinct agricultural
                              domains. Finally, exploring differences in feature interactions between local and transfer
                              locations would be an interesting area for future research using explainability techniques
                              and other analytical methods. Such studies could help identify which features generalise
                              well across domains and which require domain adaptation techniques to enhance model
                              performance in transfer-learning scenarios.

                              5. Conclusions
                                    The scarcity of historical crop yield data poses a significant challenge for developing
                              machine-learning models for accurate yield prediction. Moreover, ML models trained on
                              data from one location often fail to predict satisfactorily when applied directly to geograph-
                              ically distinct areas with different environmental conditions. This study proposes different
                              deep-transfer-learning strategies for crop yield prediction, leveraging satellite-derived vege-
                              tation indices and meteorological variables in conjunction with a BiLSTM model. The study
                              develops the instance-based two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2 and TrAdaBoost.R2, parameter-
                              based fine-tuning, and feature-based DANN with BiLSTM as the base model and provides
                              a comprehensive quantitative evaluation. The effectiveness of the proposed approach is val-
                              idated by implementing it in diverse climatic zones within the United States. In conclusion,
                              the proposed deep-transfer-learning strategies show promise in improving the crop yield
                              prediction accuracy in regions with limited historical data. The results also demonstrate
                              that the semi-supervised transfer-learning approach using the two-stage TrAdaBoost.R2
                              and fine-tuning achieved a superior performance compared to the DANN and vanilla TrAd-
                              aBoost.R2. Future studies should evaluate the applicability of this method. This includes
                              incorporating data from different countries and applying it to entirely new geographic
                              regions. Further, a hybrid transfer-learning approach that incorporates parameter updates
                              and instance selection is suggested. As the diversity of source data increases and a more
                              robust methodology is adopted, the transfer-learning approach is expected to become even
                              more powerful in overcoming data scarcity limitations and achieving robust crop yield
                              predictions across various agricultural landscapes.

                              Author Contributions: Conceptualisation, A.J. and B.P.; methodology, A.J.; software, A.J.; validation,
                              B.P., S.C., R.V. and S.G.; formal analysis, A.J.; investigation, A.J.; resources, B.P.; data curation, B.P.;
                              writing—original draft preparation, A.J.; writing—review and editing, B.P., S.C., R.V., A.A. and
                              S.G.; visualisation, A.J., B.P., R.V. and A.A.; supervision, B.P. and S.C.; project administration, B.P.;
                              funding acquisition, B.P. and A.A. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of
                              the manuscript.
                              Funding: This study was supported by the Centre for Advanced Modelling and Geospatial Infor-
                              mation Systems (CAMGIS), University of Technology Sydney. The research was supported by an
                              Australian Government Research Training Program Scholarship, in part by the Researchers Support-
                              ing project number RSP2025 R14, King Saud University.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4804                                                                                                               14 of 15



                                    Data Availability Statement: All the data used are publicly available.
                                    Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

References
1.    Food and Agriculture Organization. The Future of Food and Agriculture–Trends and Challenges; Annual Report; Food and Agriculture
      Organization: Rome, Italy, 2017.
2.    Hoffman, L.A.; Etienne, X.L.; Irwin, S.H.; Colino, E.V.; Toasa, J.I. Forecast Performance of Wasde Price Projections for Us Corn.
      Agric. Econ. 2015, 46, 157–171. [CrossRef]
3.    Sherrick, B.J.; Lanoue, C.A.; Woodard, J.; Schnitkey, G.D.; Paulson, N.D. Crop Yield Distributions: Fit, Efficiency, and Performance.
      Agric. Financ. Rev. 2014, 74, 348–363. [CrossRef]
4.    Isengildina-Massa, O.; Irwin, S.H.; Good, D.L.; Gomez, J.K. The Impact of Situation and Outlook Information in Corn and
      Soybean Futures Markets: Evidence from Wasde Reports. J. Agric. Appl. Econ. 2008, 40, 89–103. [CrossRef]
5.    You, J.; Li, X.; Low, M.; Lobell, D.; Ermon, S. Deep Gaussian Process for Crop Yield Prediction Based on Remote Sensing Data.
      In Proceedings of the Thirty-First AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, San Francisco, CA, USA, 4–9 February 2017.
6.    Joshi, A.; Pradhan, B.; Gite, S.; Chakraborty, S. Remote-Sensing Data and Deep-Learning Techniques in Crop Mapping and Yield
      Prediction: A Systematic Review. Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 2014. [CrossRef]
7.    Joshi, D.R.; Clay, S.A.; Sharma, P.; Rekabdarkolaee, H.M.; Kharel, T.; Rizzo, D.M.; Thapa, R.; Clay, D.E. Artificial Intelligence and
      Satellite-Based Remote Sensing Can Be Used to Predict Soybean (Glycine Max) Yield. Agron. J. 2023, 116, 917–930. [CrossRef]
8.    Ma, Y.; Zhang, Z.; Kang, Y.; Özdoğan, M. Corn Yield Prediction and Uncertainty Analysis Based on Remotely Sensed Variables
      Using a Bayesian Neural Network Approach. Remote Sens. Environ. 2021, 259, 112408. [CrossRef]
9.    Wolanin, A.; Mateo-Garciá, G.; Camps-Valls, G.; Gómez-Chova, L.; Meroni, M.; Duveiller, G.; Liangzhi, Y.; Guanter, L. Estimating
      and Understanding Crop Yields with Explainable Deep Learning in the Indian Wheat Belt. Environ. Res. Lett. 2020, 15, 024019.
      [CrossRef]
10.   Jiang, H.; Hu, H.; Zhong, R.; Xu, J.; Xu, J.; Huang, J.; Wang, S.; Ying, Y.; Lin, T. A Deep Learning Approach to Conflating
      Heterogeneous Geospatial Data for Corn Yield Estimation: A Case Study of the Us Corn Belt at the County Level. Glob. Change
      Biol. 2020, 26, 1754–1766. [CrossRef]
11.   Torrey, L.; Shavlik, J. Transfer Learning. In Handbook of Research on Machine Learning Applications and Trends: Algorithms, Methods,
      and Techniques; IGI Global: Hershey, PA, USA, 2010; pp. 242–264.
12.   Ma, Y.; Chen, S.; Ermon, S.; Lobell, D.B. Transfer Learning in Environmental Remote Sensing. Remote Sens. Environ. 2024,
      301, 113924. [CrossRef]
13.   Wang, A.X.; Tran, C.; Desai, N.; Lobell, D.; Ermon, S. Deep Transfer Learning for Crop Yield Prediction with Remote Sensing Data.
      In Proceedings of the 1st ACM SIGCAS Conference on Computing and Sustainable Societies, COMPASS 2018, San Jose, CA, USA,
      20–22 June 2018.
14.   Cai, Y.; Guan, K.; Lobell, D.; Potgieter, A.B.; Wang, S.; Peng, J.; Xu, T.; Asseng, S.; Zhang, Y.; You, L. Integrating Satellite and Climate
      Data to Predict Wheat Yield in Australia Using Machine Learning Approaches. Agric. For. Meterol. 2019, 274, 144–159. [CrossRef]
15.   Goodfellow, I.; Bengio, Y.; Courville, A. Deep Learning; MIT Press: Cambridge, MA, USA, 2016.
16.   Xu, J.; Zhu, Y.; Zhong, R.; Lin, Z.; Xu, J.; Jiang, H.; Huang, J.; Li, H.; Lin, T. Deepcropmapping: A Multi-Temporal Deep
      Learning Approach with Improved Spatial Generalizability for Dynamic Corn and Soybean Mapping. Remote Sens. Environ. 2020,
      247, 111946. [CrossRef]
17.   Gadiraju, K.K.; Vatsavai, R.R. Remote Sensing Based Crop Type Classification Via Deep Transfer Learning. IEEE J. Sel. Top. Appl.
      Earth Obs. Remote Sens. 2023, 16, 4699–4712. [CrossRef]
18.   Li, Y.; Liu, H.; Ma, J.; Zhang, L. Estimation of Leaf Area Index for Winter Wheat at Early Stages Based on Convolutional Neural
      Networks. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2021, 190, 106480. [CrossRef]
19.   Cao, Z.; Ma, R.; Duan, H.; Pahlevan, N.; Melack, J.; Shen, M.; Xue, K. A Machine Learning Approach to Estimate Chlorophyll-a
      from Landsat-8 Measurements in Inland Lakes. Remote Sens. Environ. 2020, 248, 111974. [CrossRef]
20.   Ma, Y.; Zhang, Z.; Yang, H.L.; Yang, Z. An Adaptive Adversarial Domain Adaptation Approach for Corn Yield Prediction. Comput.
      Electron. Agric. 2021, 187, 106314. [CrossRef]
21.   Priyatikanto, R.; Lu, Y.; Dash, J.; Sheffield, J. Improving Generalisability and Transferability of Machine-Learning-Based Maize
      Yield Prediction Model through Domain Adaptation. Agric. For. Meterol. 2023, 341, 109652. [CrossRef]
22.   Gu, X.; Yu, X.; Sun, J.; Xu, Z. Adversarial Reweighting for Partial Domain Adaptation. Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst. 2021, 34,
      14860–14872.
23.   Qian, F.; Ruan, Y.; Lu, H.; Meng, H.; Xu, T. Enhancing Source Domain Availability through Data and Feature Transfer Learning
      for Building Power Load Forecasting. In Proceedings of the Building Simulation, Denver, CO, USA, 21–23 May 2024; pp. 1–14.
24.   Dai, W.; Yang, Q.; Xue, G.-R.; Yu, Y. Boosting for Transfer Learning. In Proceedings of the 24th International Conference on
      Machine Learning, Corvallis, OR, USA, 20–24 June 2007; pp. 193–200.
25.   Tang, D.; Yang, X.; Wang, X. Improving the Transferability of the Crash Prediction Model Using the Tradaboost. R2 Algorithm.
      Accid. Anal. Prev. 2020, 141, 105551. [CrossRef]
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4804                                                                                                         15 of 15



26.   FAO. Staple Foods: What Do People Eat? Available online: https://www.fao.org/3/u8480e/U8480E07.HTM (accessed on
      4 February 2024).
27.   FAO. World Food and Agriculture—Statistical Yearbook 2020; FAO: Rome, Italy, 2021.
28.   USDA. U.S. Wheat Exports in 2021. Available online: https://www.fas.usda.gov/commodities/wheat (accessed on 11 November 2023).
29.   USDA. United States Department of Agriculture National Agricultural Statistics Service. Available online: https://quickstats.
      nass.usda.gov (accessed on 5 December 2023).
30.   Beck, H.E.; Zimmermann, N.E.; McVicar, T.R.; Vergopolan, N.; Berg, A.; Wood, E.F. Present and Future Köppen-Geiger Climate
      Classification Maps at 1-Km Resolution. Sci. Data 2018, 5, 180214. [CrossRef]
31.   Joshi, A.; Pradhan, B.; Chakraborty, S.; Behera, M.D. Winter Wheat Yield Prediction in the Conterminous United States Using
      Solar-Induced Chlorophyll Fluorescence Data and Xgboost and Random Forest Algorithm. Ecol. Inform. 2023, 77, 102194. [CrossRef]
32.   Huete, A.; Didan, K.; Miura, T.; Rodriguez, E.P.; Gao, X.; Ferreira, L.G. Overview of the Radiometric and Biophysical Performance
      of the Modis Vegetation Indices. Remote Sens. Environ. 2002, 83, 195–213. [CrossRef]
33.   Abatzoglou, J.T.; Dobrowski, S.Z.; Parks, S.A.; Hegewisch, K.C. Terraclimate, a High-Resolution Global Dataset of Monthly
      Climate and Climatic Water Balance from 1958–2015. Sci. Data 2018, 5, 170191. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
34.   USDA-NASS. Crop Production (October 2021); USDA-NASS: Washington, DC, USA, 2021.
35.   USDA National Agricultural Statistics Service (NASS). Cropland Data Layer. Available online: https://nassgeodata.gmu.edu/
      CropScape (accessed on 1 November 2022).
36.   Ching, J.Y.; Wong, A.K.C.; Chan, K.C.C. Class-Dependent Discretization for Inductive Learning from Continuous and Mixed-Mode
      Data. IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell. 1995, 17, 641–651. [CrossRef]
37.   Yang, Q.; Ling, C.; Chai, X.; Pan, R. Test-Cost Sensitive Classification on Data with Missing Values. IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng.
      2006, 18, 626–638. [CrossRef]
38.   Zhu, X.; Wu, X. Class Noise Handling for Effective Cost-Sensitive Learning by Cost-Guided Iterative Classification Filtering.
      IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng. 2006, 18, 1435–1440.
39.   Pan, S.J.; Yang, Q. A Survey on Transfer Learning. IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng. 2009, 22, 1345–1359.
40.   Pardoe, D.; Stone, P. Boosting for Regression Transfer. In Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on International
      Conference on Machine Learning, Haifa, Israel, 21–24 June 2010; pp. 863–870.
41.   Oquab, M.; Bottou, L.; Laptev, I.; Sivic, J. Learning and Transferring Mid-Level Image Representations Using Convolutional
      Neural Networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, Columbus, OH, USA,
      23–28 June 2014; pp. 1717–1724.
42.   Ganin, Y.; Ustinova, E.; Ajakan, H.; Germain, P.; Larochelle, H.; Laviolette, F.; March, M.; Lempitsky, V. Domain-Adversarial
      Training of Neural Networks. J. Mach. Learn. Res. 2016, 17, 1–35.
43.   Filho, H.C.C.; Júnior, O.A.C.; de Carvalho, O.L.F.; de Bem, P.P.; de Moura, R.S.; de Albuquerque, A.O.; Silva, C.R.; Ferreira, P.H.G.;
      Guimarães, R.F.; Gomes, R.A.T. Rice Crop Detection Using Lstm, Bi-Lstm, and Machine Learning Models from Sentinel-1 Time
      Series. Remote Sens. 2020, 12, 2655. [CrossRef]
44.   Chen, B.; Zheng, H.; Wang, L.; Hellwich, O.; Chen, C.; Yang, L.; Liu, T.; Luo, G.; Bao, A.; Chen, X. A Joint Learning Im-Bilstm
      Model for Incomplete Time-Series Sentinel-2a Data Imputation and Crop Classification. Int. J. Appl. Earth Obs. Geoinf. 2022,
      108, 102762. [CrossRef]
45.   Li, J.; Hu, M.; Wu, C. Multiscale Change Detection Network Based on Channel Attention and Fully Convolutional Bilstm for
      Medium-Resolution Remote Sensing Imagery. IEEE J. Sel. Top. Appl. Earth Obs. Remote Sens. 2023, 16, 9735–9748. [CrossRef]
46.   Schuster, M.; Paliwal, K.K. Bidirectional Recurrent Neural Networks. IEEE Trans. Signal Process. 1997, 45, 2673–2681. [CrossRef]
47.   Graves, A.; Schmidhuber, J. Framewise Phoneme Classification with Bidirectional Lstm and Other Neural Network Architectures.
      Neural Netw. 2005, 18, 602–610. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
48.   Hochreiter, S.; Schmidhuber, J. Long Short-Term Memory. Neural Comput. 1997, 9, 1735–1780. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
49.   Breiman, L. Random Forests. Mach. Learn. 2001, 45, 5–32. [CrossRef]
50.   de Mathelin, A.; Atiq, M.; Richard, G.; de la Concha, A.; Yachouti, M.; Deheeger, F.; Mougeot, M.; Vayatis, N. Adapt: Awesome
      Domain Adaptation Python Toolbox. arXiv 2021, arXiv:2107.03049.
51.   Van der Maaten, L.; Hinton, G. Visualizing Data Using T-Sne. J. Mach. Learn. Res. 2008, 9, 2579–2605.
52.   Ma, Y.; Yang, Z.; Huang, Q.; Zhang, Z. Improving the Transferability of Deep Learning Models for Crop Yield Prediction: A Partial
      Domain Adaptation Approach. Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 4562. [CrossRef]
53.   Muruganantham, P.; Wibowo, S.; Grandhi, S.; Samrat, N.H.; Islam, N. A Systematic Literature Review on Crop Yield Prediction
      with Deep Learning and Remote Sensing. Remote Sens. 2022, 14, 1990. [CrossRef]
54.   Keshava, N.; Mustard, J.F. Spectral Unmixing. IEEE Signal Process. Mag. 2002, 19, 44–57. [CrossRef]

Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
