                                          S EMI -S ELF -S UPERVISED D OMAIN A DAPTATION : D EVELOPING
                                           D EEP L EARNING M ODELS WITH L IMITED A NNOTATED DATA
                                                          FOR W HEAT H EAD S EGMENTATION

                                                                                              A P REPRINT
arXiv:2405.07157v1 [cs.CV] 12 May 2024




                                                                 Alireza Ghanbari                                    Gholamhassan Shirdel
                                                          Department of Mathematics                              Department of Mathematics
                                                     Faculty of Sciences, University of Qom                 Faculty of Sciences, University of Qom
                                                                    Qom, Iran                                              Qom, Iran


                                                                                          Farhad Maleki
                                                                                  Department of Computer Science
                                                                                       University of Calgary
                                                                                     Calgary, Alberta, Canada
                                                                                  farhad.maleki1@ucalgary.ca


                                                                                            May 14, 2024

                                                                                            A BSTRACT
                                                 Precision agriculture involves the application of advanced technologies to improve agricultural
                                                 productivity, efficiency, and profitability while minimizing waste and environmental impact. Deep
                                                 learning approaches enable automated decision-making for many visual tasks. However, in the
                                                 agricultural domain, variability in growth stages and environmental conditions, such as weather and
                                                 lighting, presents significant challenges to developing deep learning-based techniques that generalize
                                                 across different conditions. The resource-intensive nature of creating extensive annotated datasets
                                                 that capture these variabilities further hinders the widespread adoption of these approaches. To
                                                 tackle these issues, we introduce a semi-self-supervised domain adaptation technique based on deep
                                                 convolutional neural networks with a probabilistic diffusion process, requiring minimal manual data
                                                 annotation. Using only three manually annotated images and a selection of video clips from wheat
                                                 fields, we generated a large-scale computationally annotated dataset of image-mask pairs and a large
                                                 dataset of unannotated images extracted from video frames. We developed a two-branch convolutional
                                                 encoder-decoder model architecture that uses both synthesized image-mask pairs and unannotated
                                                 images, enabling effective adaptation to real images. The proposed model achieved a Dice score of
                                                 80.7% on an internal test dataset and a Dice score of 64.8% on an external test set, composed of
                                                 images from five countries and spanning 18 domains, indicating its potential to develop generalizable
                                                 solutions that could encourage the wider adoption of advanced technologies in agriculture.

                                         Keywords Self-Supervised Learning · Semi-Supervised Learning · Domain Adaptation · Deep Learning · Precision
                                         Agriculture


                                         1   Introduction

                                         Precision agriculture refers to the use of advanced technologies, including GPS guidance, control systems, sensors,
                                         robotics, drones, autonomous vehicles, and variable rate technology, to optimize farm management. It aims to reduce
                                         costs and increase yield in farming while ensuring sustainability and environmental protection [1]. Deep learning
                                         (DL) methodologies can offer efficient, automated, and data-driven decision-making in agricultural practices. DL has
                                        Semi-Self-Supervised Domain Adaptation                                    A P REPRINT



demonstrated significant advancements in visual data analysis across various tasks, including image classification [2, 3],
object detection [4, 5], semantic segmentation [6, 7, 8, 9], and instance segmentation [10, 11, 12]. Automated visual
monitoring of agricultural fields can aid in the early identification of issues such as pest infestations, diseases, and
nutrient deficiencies while optimizing resource utilization. Consequently, this approach facilitates timely interventions,
which can lead to enhanced crop yields, improved quality of harvests, and increased overall operational efficiency,
thereby ensuring sustainability.
However, the wide adoption of DL approaches for crop monitoring faces significant challenges. Agricultural fields are
constantly changing environments. For example, a crop field in the early growth stages is substantially different from
the same field in the later stages of growth. Additionally, these systems must operate accurately under various weather
and lighting conditions. These challenges the generalizability of DL models because models trained on data from a
specific growth stage of a field might not generalize well to the same crop at different growth stages. In the DL context,
this phenomenon is known as a distribution shift [13, 14]. One could develop a large-scale dataset encompassing various
crop growth stages and environmental conditions to alleviate this issue. However, this approach presents challenges
in data collection and annotation. Collecting data from various growth stages of crop fields under various weather
and lighting conditions is time-consuming. Further, annotating agricultural images is particularly challenging, often
requiring pixel-level annotation. These images frequently contain numerous objects of interest—e.g., wheat spikes in a
wheat field—making the data annotation process laborious.
Domain adaptation techniques refer to the methodologies used to alleviate distribution shift and can be divided into
supervised, semi-supervised, self-supervised, and unsupervised approaches depending on whether or not annotated data
is used for domain adaptation [15, 16]. Supervised domain adaptation relies on labeled data from both source and target
domains. Semi-supervised domain adaptation combines labeled data from the source domain with both labeled and
unlabeled data from the target domain. Finally, unsupervised domain adaptation operates solely with unlabeled data in
the target domain, focusing on learning features applicable across domains.
In this paper, we develop a semi-self-supervised domain adaptation approach based on a probabilistic diffusion model
that operates without the need for manual annotation of data from the target domain. This alleviates the need for further
manual data annotation, accelerating the model development process. Self-supervised learning refers to methodologies
where supervisory signals are generated computationally from the input data, enabling learning data representation and
extracting informative features without the need for manual annotation [17]. This approach allows for utilizing large-
scale but unannotated datasets and has recently shown substantial progress in various image-processing tasks [17, 18].
Deep diffusion probabilistic models, as self-supervised techniques, have shown remarkable results in image-processing
tasks, especially in Generative AI [19, 20, 21]. In the following, we provide a mathematical description of these models.

1.1   Background

A Markov chain is a sequence of random variables X1 , X2 , X3 , . . . that satisfies the Markov property, which states that
the probability of the system transitioning to the next state depends solely on the current state of the system and not the
preceding events/states. Markov property can be mathematically expressed as follows:
              P (Xn+1 = x | X0 = x0 , X1 = x1 , X2 = x2 , . . . , Xn = xn ) = P (Xn+1 = x | Xn = xn )                       (1)
In this equation, P denotes a probability distribution for the state of the system. Xi is a vector-valued variable
representing the state at the ith step, and x, x0 , x1 , x2 , . . . , xn are specific state vector values of the system.
Given a data point x0 from the actual data distribution, we can define a Markov chain—referred to as a forward diffusion
process—by iteratively adding multivariate Gaussian noise vector to x0 . More specifically, at state Xt−1 , where the
system has a specific state of xt−1 , we add a Gaussian noise—characterized by a mean vector of µt and a covariance
matrix of Σ2t —to xt−1 to transition to a state Xt with a specific value of√xt . The probability distribution for this
transition can be described as q(Xt = xt | Xt−1 = xt−1 ) = N (xt ; µt = 1 − βt xt−1 , Σ2t = βt I), where βt is an
scalar; I is the m × m identity matrix; and m is the cardinality of xi (0 ≤ i ≤ T ). Considering the Markov chain
property, we have
                                                             T
                                                             Y
                                             q(x1:T |x0 ) =     q(xt | xt−1 )
                                                              t=1

where q(x1:T |x0 ) is a short notation for q(x1 , x2 , . . . , xT |x0 ). A state xt can be achieved by iteratively applying the
Gaussian noise to x0 , t times. Instead of an iterative process, this could also be achieved in a single step, utilizing a
reparametrization trick, in which xt is rewritten as
                                                      p                     p
                                              xt = 1 − βt xt−1 + βt ϵ                                                        (2)


                                                               2
                                        Semi-Self-Supervised Domain Adaptation                                    A P REPRINT



Where ϵ is an n-dimensional vector with standard normal distribution
                                                           √         N (0, I). It can be inferred that this reparametriza-
tion preserves the distribution of xt , i.e., xt ∼ N (µt = 1 − βt xt−1 , Σ2t = βt I). By changing the notation as
αt = 1 − βt , Equation 2 can be written as:
                                                   √           √
                                               xt = αt xt−1 + 1 − αt ϵ                                                 (3)
As Equation 3 is a recursive equation, we can further expand the equation.
                                    √            √
                                xt = αt xt−1 + 1 − αt ϵ
                                    √ √                 p              √
                                   = αt αt−1 xt−2 + 1 − αt−1 ϵ + 1 − αt ϵ
                                    √                 p                    √
                                   = αt αt−1 xt−2 + αt (1 − αt−1 ) ϵ + 1 − αt ϵ                              (4)
                                                                p
Since ϵ has standard normal distribution
                               √           N (µ = 0, Σ2 = I), αt (1 − αt−1 ) ϵ has a normal distribution N (µ =
    2
0, Σ = αt (1 −pαt−1 )) and 1 − αt ϵ has a normal distribution N (µ = 0, Σ2 = 1 − αt ). Consequently, their
                                     √
summation, i.e. αt (1 − αt−1 )ϵ + 1 − αt ϵ, has a normal distribution N (µ = 0, Σ2 = 1 − αt αt−1 ). Therefore,
Equation 4 can be written as:
                                             √                p
                                        xt = αt αt−1 xt−2 + 1 − αt αt−1 ϵ                                    (5)
By expanding Equation 5 further, we obtain the following Equation:
                                     √                     p
                                 xt = αt αt−1 . . . α1 x0 + 1 − αt αt−1 . . . α1 ϵ                                         (6)
Defining αt = αt αt−1 . . . α1 , Equation 6 can be written concisely as follow:
                                                    √          √
                                                xt = α t x0 + 1 − α t ϵ                                                    (7)
Given x0 , Equation 7 allows generating xt in a computationally efficient manner in just one step, rather √    than iteratively
adding noise in t steps. This is achieved by sampling from the Gaussian distribution N (xt ; µt = αt x0 , Σ2t =
(1 − αt )I). αt is defined using α1 , . . . αt , where αi = 1 − βi (1 ≤ i ≤ t). βi values are often defined using a linear [22]
or cosine scheduler [22, 23], with the cosine schedule leading to superior results as it smoothly transitions the noise
added to the data across the diffusion steps, which is essential for controlling the quality and characteristics of the
generated data in diffusion models. A Cosine scheduler can be defined as follows:
                                                                                     
                                                       1                           t
                                      βt = βmax − (βmax − βmin ) 1 + cos             π
                                                       2                           T
Where βt represents the noise level at step t (higher βt values correspond to higher noise levels); t = 1 and t = T result
in the minimum and maximum noise levels, respectively; T is the total number of steps in the diffusion process; and t is
the current time step. All experiments in this study were conducted using βmin = 0.0001 and βmax = 0.02..
As T approaches infinity, xT converges to isotropic Gaussian distribution, meaning that all components of xt are
normally distributed and decorrelated. Therefore, by having a procedure for learning the reverse distribution q(xt−1 |
xt ), we can start with sampling xT from a normal distribution and follow the reverse distribution to arrive at x0 . It
should be noted that in the forward diffusion process, noise is added at each step; that is, xt is derived from adding noise
to xt−1 according to a distribution of q(xt |xt−1 ). In the backward diffusion process, however, the aim is to reverse the
forward process by removing the noise added to xt to recover xt−1 . This is achieved by a reverse transition using a
distribution denoted as q(xt−1 |xt ).
In practical terms, the true reverse distribution q(xt−1 |xt ) is unknown and intractable to compute directly, as accurately
estimating it would require complex calculations involving the entire data distribution. Instead, we approximate
q(xt−1 |xt ) using a parameterized model, a deep neural network, denoted as pθ (xt−1 |xt ). Given that q(xt−1 |xt ) is
also Gaussian for small enough values of βt in the forward diffusion process, we can choose pθ (xt−1 |xt ) to be a
Gaussian distribution. In this case, the neural network is trained to parameterize the mean and variance of this Gaussian
distribution.

2    Data and Methodology
This section provides an in-depth explanation of the data used in this research, along with detailed descriptions of the
preprocessing methods, the model architecture, and the processes for model training and evaluation.


                                                              3
                                       Semi-Self-Supervised Domain Adaptation                                  A P REPRINT




Figure 1: Three manually annotated image-mask pairs were utilized for data synthesis. We developed two training sets
by synthesizing computationally annotated images using manually annotated images from the left (Iη ) and the middle
(Iζ ), producing 8, 000 images based on Iη and 8, 000 images based on Iζ . Hereafter, we refer to the 8, 000 images
developed based on (Iη ) as dataset Dη . We refer to the set comprising the whole 16, 000 images as Dη+ζ . Additionally,
we created a validation set by synthesizing 4, 000 images, with 2, 000 from the image on the right (Iτ ) and 2, 000
images based on Iζ . Hereafter, we refer to this set of 4, 000 images as Dζ+τ . Dataset Dζ+τ was made to allow for a
balanced representation of wheat field images from the early and late growth stages. All computationally annotated
samples were synthesized following the methodology described by Najafian et al. [8].



2.1   Data

Figure 1 illustrates the three manually annotated images (Iη , Iζ , and Iτ ) used for synthesizing computationally annotated
datasets. Utilizing the methodology presented in our previous work [8], we computationally synthesize three datasets:
Dη a set of 8, 000 images drived from Iη , Dη+ζ a set of 16, 000 images derived from Iη and Iζ , and Dζ+τ a set of
4, 000 images derived from Iζ and Iτ . Figure 2 illustrates examples of synthesized images and their corresponding
segmentation masks. In addition to these manually and computationally annotated images, for the training process, we
utilize 10, 592 unannotated image frames extracted from two video clips of wheat fields, with 5, 296 frames from each.
Hereafter, we refer to these datasets as Dρ1 and Dρ2 . We refer to the dataset resulting from combining Dρ1 and Dρ2 as
Dρ .




      Figure 2: Examples of computationally synthesized images and their corresponding segmentation masks.


We also use two sets of Ψ and Γ as the internal and external test sets, as introduced by Najafian et al. [8]. The set Ψ
comprises 100 image frames, which are randomly selected from a video clip of a wheat field and have been manually
annotated to serve as an internal test set. The set Γ represents a subset of 365 manually annotated images from the
GWHD dataset [24], which includes images from five countries and spans 18 domains, covering various growth stages
of wheat.


                                                             4
                                      Semi-Self-Supervised Domain Adaptation                                            A P REPRINT




                                                          Skip Connections




                                                                                                  Segmentation Loss
                                                                       Mask
                                                Encoder
Labeled Synthetic Data                                                Decoder




                                                 Shared
                                                                                                                        Totall Loss




                                                                                                  Reconstruction Loss
                                                                       Image
                                                Encoder
  Unlabeled Real Data                                                 Decoder



                         Add Noise                        Skip Connections




Figure 3: Schematic Representation of the Model Architecture. The encoder focuses on developing a joint image
representation for both synthesized and real images, while the mask decoder aims at generating segmentation masks,
and the image decoder aims at reconstructing the real images, forcing the encoder to adapt to the real images.



2.2   Model Architecture

Figure 3 illustrates the convolutional neural network (CNN)-based model architecture employed in this research. This
architecture is designed to facilitate representation learning through a diffusion process, in addition to performing the
primary task of segmentation. The segmentation task is executed using computationally synthesized images along with
their corresponding masks. Meanwhile, the representation learning aspect enables adaptation to real images using solely
unannotated data, thereby reducing the reliance on manual annotation.
We use an encoder to develop a joint representation of both synthesized and real images. Additionally, the model
architecture comprises an image decoder and a mask decoder. The former is designed to reconstruct the image from the
output of the encoder, thereby enforcing learning features from real images. On the other hand, the mask decoder is
tasked with developing a segmentation mask given the output of the encoder.
In implementing the encoder and decoders, we leveraged the Residual building blocks [25], each comprising two pairs
of convolution and GroupNorm layers, supported by the Swish activation function [26] and integrated skip connections.
Figure 4 shows a residual building block.
Figure 5 illustrates the encoder, consisting of one convolutional layer followed by 12 ResNet building blocks organized
in six levels. Additionally, two skip-connection-free ResNet blocks serve as the network bottleneck. Moreover,
down-sampling operations are performed after each pair of ResNet blocks using a convolution layer with a kernel size
of three and a stride of two. The Swish activation function [26] is also consistently applied as the non-linearity across
the encoder layers.
Synthetic images undergo a series of image augmentations [27]; then they are fed into the encoder. The outputs of the
encoder are subsequently passed to a mask decoder to generate accurate masks corresponding to the input images. To


                                                                 5
                                                                                           Semi-Self-Supervised Domain Adaptation                                                                                                  A P REPRINT




                                                                  Group Norm




                                                                                                                                                                Group Norm
                                                                                                                         3x3 Conv




                                                                                                                                                                                                      3x3 Conv
                                                                                                  Swish




                                                                                                                                                                                            Swish
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    +




Figure 4: A ResNet block comprises three groups of operations, including convolution, GroupNorm layers, and the
Swish activation function for nonlinearity. It also incorporates skip connections to enhance feature propagation.
                     ResNet Block

                                    ResNet Block
          3x3 Conv




                                                                                                                                                                             Skip
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Group Norm
                                                   ResNet Block

                                                                         ResNet Block




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Swish

                                                                                                                                                                             Skip
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3x3 Conv
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Image Decoder



                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mask Decoder
                                                                                        ResNet Block

                                                                                                          ResNet Block




                                                                                                                                                                             Skip



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Group Norm
                                                                                                                                                                             Skip

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Swish
                                                                                                                              ResNet Block

                                                                                                                                             ResNet Block




                                                                                                                                                                             Skip                                                   3x3 Conv
                                                                                                                                                            ResNet Block

                                                                                                                                                                             ResNet Block




Figure 5: Encoder model architecture is designed by combining convolutional layers, ResNet blocks, and GroupNorm
layers. Also, in each of the two decoding streams, we utilize concatenation instead of addition.




                                                                                                                                                            6
                                        Semi-Self-Supervised Domain Adaptation                                   A P REPRINT



calculate segmentation error, we use a linear combination of Binary Cross Entropy (BCE) loss [28] and Dice loss [28]
(see Equation 8).


                                                  B X N
                                            1    X
                             LBCE = −                    (yi log(ŷi ) + (1 − yi ) log(1 − ŷi ))
                                          B × N j=1 i=1
                                                          B
                                                                               !
                                                       2 X |Mjs ∩ M̂js |
                                          LDice = 1 −
                                                      B j=1 |Mjs | + |M̂js |
                                        LSeg = λBCE × LBCE + λDice × LDice                                                 (8)
where yi is the true label of the pixel i, with a value of 1 if the pixel belongs to a wheat head and 0 otherwise. ŷi
represents the model prediction for the pixel i being from a wheat head. N is the number of pixels per image, and B is
the batch size. Mjs is the ground truth mask for the synthetic image Ijs , and M̂js is the model prediction for Ijs .
We also generate noise-augmented images by applying Gaussian noise to the real image Ij over t (1 ≤ t ≤ T )
timesteps, as detailed in Equation 7. These noise-augmented images are subsequently routed through the encoder,
followed by the image decoder, aiming to reconstruct the original images. The error for this branch is calculated
by comparing the original image with the reconstructed image using a linear combination of MSE [29], SSIM [30],
and a perceptual loss function [31]. The perceptual loss function calculates the mean absolute error between the
pretrained ResNet18 output feature maps for the original image Ij , and the reconstructed image Iˆj . We used the
ResN et18_W eights.IM AGEN ET 1K_V 1 weights from the Torchvision Python package [32]. We used the feature
maps generated by the convolutional layer before the final average pooling layer of the ResNet18 model.


                                                            B X N
                                                       1   X
                                           LMSE =                  (xji − x̂ji )2
                                                     B × N j=1 i=1
                                                             (2µIj µIˆj + c1 )(2σIj Iˆj + c2 )
                                 LSSIM (Ij , Iˆj ) = 1 −
                                                           (µIj + µ2Iˆ + c1 )(σI2j + σI2ˆ + c2 )
                                                             2
                                                                      j                  j

                                                                B                  2
                                                            1 X
                                           LPerceptual =          θ(Ij ) − θ(Iˆj )
                                                            B j=1                  2

                      LRec = λM SE × LM SE + λSSIM × LSSIM + λP erceptual × LP erceptual                                   (9)
where B is batch size; N is the number of pixels in an image Ij ; xji is the actual value of the i-th pixel of Ij ; x̂ji is the
predicted value for the i-th pixel of Ij ; µIj and µIˆj are the mean intensity values of the images Ij and Iˆj , respectively;
σ 2 and σ 2 are the variances of the images Ij and Iˆj , respectively; σ ˆ is the covariance between images Ij and Iˆj ; c1
 Ij       Iˆj                                                              Ij Ij
and c2 are constants introduced to stabilize the division. θ(Ij ) and θ(Iˆj ) are ResNet18 features extracted from images
Ij and Iˆj , respectively.
These losses focus on variations between the reconstructed image and the original noise-free image from different
perspectives: MSE loss focuses on pixel-level variations, SSIM loss focuses on local variations, and Perceptual
loss focuses on high-level global variations. The reconstruction loss is calculated as a linear combination of these
loss functions, as described in Equation 9, where λM SE , λSSIM , and λP erceptual are constant values and model
hyperparameters.

2.3   Model training and evaluation

Considering the size of the datasets, we train our models over a total of 50 training epochs. For each epoch, we iterate
over all the data in the datasets. At each iteration, we select a batch of 32 synthesized image-mask pairs and a separate
batch of 32 real images from our datasets. The image-mask pairs are fed into the segmentation branch of our model,
which consists of an encoder and a mask decoder. The segmentation loss is then calculated according to Equation 8.
Similarly, the real images are fed into the reconstruction branch of our model, comprising the encoder (shared with the
segmentation branch) and an image decoder, where the reconstruction loss is calculated as per Equation 9. The total
loss is computed by summing the segmentation loss and the reconstruction loss. Figure 3 illustrates this process.


                                                                 7
                                      Semi-Self-Supervised Domain Adaptation                                A P REPRINT



This dual-stream approach ensures that the encoder effectively attends to both types of data, with each decoder
specializing in a task corresponding to its branch—namely, segmentation or reconstruction. Model updates are
orchestrated using the AdamW optimizer [33], with a learning rate set at 0.0001. For all experiments, the coefficients
λM SE , λSSIM , λP erceptual , λBCE , and λDice are set to 1. After training for 50 epochs, we selected the model with
the highest Dice score as the best model. During the evaluation process, we assessed the model performance using the
Dice score and IoU. As a baseline for comparison, we used a model developed by [8].


3   Results

Table 1 presents a quantitative evaluation of the performance of our developed models, namely, model Fη+ρ1 , trained
on Dη and Dρ1 , and model Fη+ζ+ρ trained on Dη+ζ and Dρ . These models were trained using both synthesized
image-mask pairs and unannotated real images extracted from video clips of wheat fields. The performance of the
baseline model S from Najafian et al. [8] is also reported in Table 1. The results demonstrate that the developed models,
Fη+ρ1 and Fη+ζ+ρ , consistently outperformed the baseline model S. These models rely on computationally annotated
synthetic images and real unannotated images extracted from the video frames of wheat fields.

Table 1: The performance of the trained models was evaluated on our internal and external test sets using the IoU and
Dice scores. Model Fη+ρ1 was trained on Dη and Dρ1 and model Fη+ζ+ρ is the result of fine-tuning model Fη+ρ1 on
datasets Dη+ζ and Dρ . We also compared the performance of these two models with the model developed in [8]. All of
these models rely exclusively on synthesized image-mask pairs and/or unannotated images.

                                   Model      Evaluation Method       Dice      IoU
                                    S [8]      Internal test set Ψ    0.709    0.565
                                   Fη+ρ1       Internal test set Ψ    0.773    0.638
                                   Fη+ζ+ρ      Internal test set Ψ    0.807    0.686
                                    S [8]      External test set Γ    0.367    0.274
                                   Fη+ρ1       External test set Γ    0.551    0.427
                                   Fη+ζ+ρ      External test set Γ    0.648    0.526

Figure 6 presents a qualitative evaluation of the performance of models Fη+ζ+ρ , identified as the best-performing
model, and model S on several different domains. In general, model Fη+ζ+ρ demonstrates superior performance
compared to model S. We also reported a case, as shown in the middle column, where model S performs better.




Figure 6: Showcasing the prediction performance of model Fη+ζ+ρ (highlighted in a red box in the upper row) in
comparison with the results obtained by model S [8] (highlighted in a blue box in the lower row) on samples from the
Global Wheat Head Detection dataset [24].


                                                           8
                                      Semi-Self-Supervised Domain Adaptation                                 A P REPRINT



Table 2 presents the performance of the proposed models across various domains of the GWHD dataset. The results
indicate that the proposed models generally outperform model S in most domains, exhibiting lower variance and greater
stability.

Table 2: The performance of the models on each of the 18 domains of the GWHD dataset. Model S, which was trained
using the synthesized dataset, was reported from [8]. Model Fη+ρ1 was developed using dataset Dη —consisting of
8,000 computationally annotated synthesized images—and dataset Dρ1 , which includes 5,296 unannotated real images.
Model Fη+ζ+ρ was developed using dataset Dη+ζ —consisting of 16,000 computationally annotated synthesized
images—and dataset Dρ , which includes 10,592 unannotated real images. We trained model Fη+ρ1 from scratch,
while model Fη+ζ+ρ was resulted from fine-tuning of model Fη+ρ1 using dataset Dη+ζ and dataset Dρ .

                Domain      Model    Dice Score                            Domain       Model   Dice Score

                              S        0.731                                             S        0.711
                           Fη+ρ1       0.660                                           Fη+ρ1      0.644
                           Fη+ζ+ρ      0.692                                          Fη+ζ+ρ      0.759
                              S        0.848                                             S        0.290
                           Fη+ρ1       0.815                                           Fη+ρ1      0.193
                           Fη+ζ+ρ      0.857                                          Fη+ζ+ρ      0.271
                              S        0.309                                             S        0.601
                           Fη+ρ1       0.764                                           Fη+ρ1      0.599
                           Fη+ζ+ρ      0.812                                          Fη+ζ+ρ      0.769
                              S        0.240                                             S        0.583
                           Fη+ρ1       0.503                                           Fη+ρ1      0.795
                           Fη+ζ+ρ      0.431                                          Fη+ζ+ρ      0.748
                              S        0.794                                             S        0.156
                           Fη+ρ1       0.715                                           Fη+ρ1      0.286
                           Fη+ζ+ρ      0.698                                          Fη+ζ+ρ      0.356
                              S        0.389                                             S        0.582
                           Fη+ρ1       0.479                                           Fη+ρ1      0.492
                           Fη+ζ+ρ      0.605                                          Fη+ζ+ρ      0.667

                              S        0.509                                             S        0.884
                           Fη+ρ1       0.655                                           Fη+ρ1      0.648
                           Fη+ζ+ρ      0.625                                          Fη+ζ+ρ      0.805

                              S        0.859                                             S        0.501
                           Fη+ρ1       0.674                                           Fη+ρ1      0.488
                           Fη+ζ+ρ      0.671                                          Fη+ζ+ρ      0.686

                              S        0.539                                             S        0.629
                           Fη+ρ1       0.586                                           Fη+ρ1      0.496
                           Fη+ζ+ρ      0.579                                          Fη+ζ+ρ      0.520




4   Discussion

Precision agriculture aims to integrate advanced technologies to address various challenges in the agricultural sector,
enhancing productivity, efficiency, and profitability while minimizing waste and environmental impact. Deep learning
approaches play a crucial role in enabling automated decision-making capabilities. By automating the processing of
visual data from agricultural fields, these decision-making processes can be significantly improved and scaled up.
However, the development of DL-based techniques encounters challenges stemming from the dynamic nature of
agricultural fields, characterized by diverse growth stages, inconsistent weather conditions, and variable lighting. As
such, models developed based on one snapshot of these fields often are not generalizable across different growth
stages or environmental conditions. Furthermore, developing large-scale annotated datasets across various growth


                                                          9
                                      Semi-Self-Supervised Domain Adaptation                               A P REPRINT



stages and environmental conditions is time-consuming and expensive. These challenges hinder the development of
generalizable DL-based solutions for various agricultural tasks. Consequently, developing methodologies that allow
DL-based solutions to generalize across different conditions (domains) could facilitate the widespread adoption of these
technologies in the agricultural sector.
In response to these challenges, we developed a semi-self-supervised domain adaptation technique that employs deep
convolutional neural networks and a probabilistic diffusion process. This approach was developed with minimal data
annotation, requiring only three manually annotated images. We classify this method as semi-supervised because
it leverages a small amount of annotated data (three images) alongside a significant volume of unannotated data.
Additionally, this method can be considered self-supervised as it utilizes computationally annotated data for model
development.
The proposed model demonstrated substantial improvements in performance compared to the baseline model from
recent work by Najafian et al. [8], while also showing lower variance in model performance across 18 different domains
from the GWHD dataset. These 18 domains represent various growth stages of wheat fields and different environmental
conditions.
In this study, we devised a two-phase model training process. Initially, model Fη+ρ1 was developed by synthesizing a
large number of computationally annotated samples resulted from a single sample for image synthesis and validation,
showcasing nearly a 20% improvement over a recent work by Najafian et al. [8] on the target domain. Subsequently,
in the second phase, model Fη+ζ+ρ leveraged additional computationally generated data, further enhancing the
performance difference to 28%.
As presented in Table 1, our final model, Fη+ζ+ρ , shows 28.1% improvement in Dice score and 25.2% improvement in
IoU when compared to model S from Najafian et al. The increased performance showcases the utility of the proposed
semi-self-supervised domain adaptation technique.
In this research, we adopted an extreme strategy by utilizing only two annotated images for training and one for
validation. However, we recommend incorporating more manually annotated samples from diverse domains to further
enhance the robustness of the proposed approach. Additionally, in this research, we primarily relied on default
hyperparameters. Tuning model hyperparameters could lead to further improvements in model performance.

5   Conclusion
This research introduces a semi-self-supervised domain adaptation methodology characterized by a dual-stream encoder-
decoder model architecture, specifically designed for the downstream task of semantic segmentation of wheat heads.
We synthesized a large-scale, computationally annotated dataset from three manually annotated images. We also
used unannotated image frames extracted from wheat field videos captured at two different growth stages. The model
architecture and training strategy, utilizing both image segmentation and reconstruction, were strategically designed to
mitigate challenges associated with domain shift while minimizing the need for extensive data annotation. The external
evaluation of our proposed approach on a subset of the GWHD dataset demonstrated a substantial improvement in
model performance over a recent work. This underscores the utility of our proposed approach in alleviating domain
shift, allowing for the development of generalizable models with minimal manual data annotation, which, in turn, could
enable the widespread adoption of DL-based approaches in the agricultural sector.

Author Contributions
The methodology of this study was designed and implemented by AG, who also authored the initial draft of the
manuscript. Both FM and GHS edited and refined subsequent versions of the paper. FM contributed to the ideation of
the research. FM and GHS provided supervision throughout the study.

Funding
This research received no external funding.

Acknowledgments
We acknowledge Keyhan Najafian for providing access to the dataset used in this study and for granting access to the
baseline model employed for model evaluation.


                                                          10
                                      Semi-Self-Supervised Domain Adaptation                               A P REPRINT



References
 [1] Margaret A Oliver, Thomas FA Bishop, Ben P Marchant, et al. Precision Agriculture for Sustainability and
     Environmental Protection. Routledge Abingdon, 2013.
 [2] Mingxing Tan and Quoc Le. EfficientNet: Rethinking model scaling for convolutional neural networks. In
     International conference on Machine Learning, pages 6105–6114. PMLR, 2019.
 [3] Keyhan Najafian, Lingling Jin, H Randy Kutcher, Mackenzie Hladun, Samuel Horovatin, Maria Alejandra Oviedo-
     Ludena, Sheila Maria Pereira De Andrade, Lipu Wang, and Ian Stavness. Detection of fusarium damaged kernels
     in wheat using deep semi-supervised learning on a novel wheatseedbelt dataset. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
     International Conference on Computer Vision, pages 660–669, 2023.
 [4] Chien-Yao Wang, Alexey Bochkovskiy, and Hong-Yuan Mark Liao. Yolov7: Trainable bag-of-freebies sets new
     state-of-the-art for real-time object detectors. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
     and Pattern Recognition, pages 7464–7475, 2023.
 [5] Keyhan Najafian, Alireza Ghanbari, Ian Stavness, Lingling Jin, Gholam Hassan Shirdel, and Farhad Maleki. A
     semi-self-supervised learning approach for wheat head detection using extremely small number of labeled samples.
     In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, pages 1342–1351, 2021.
 [6] Mohammad Hossein Nazeri and Mahdi Bohlouli. Exploring reflective limitation of behavior cloning in autonomous
     vehicles. In 2021 IEEE International Conference on Data Mining (ICDM), pages 1252–1257. IEEE, 2021.
 [7] Yujian Mo, Yan Wu, Xinneng Yang, Feilin Liu, and Yujun Liao. Review the state-of-the-art technologies of
     semantic segmentation based on deep learning. Neurocomputing, 493:626–646, 2022.
 [8] Keyhan Najafian, Alireza Ghanbari, Mahdi Sabet Kish, Mark Eramian, Gholam Hassan Shirdel, Ian Stavness,
     Lingling Jin, and Farhad Maleki. Semi-self-supervised learning for semantic segmentation in images with dense
     patterns. Plant Phenomics, 5:0025, 2023.
 [9] Alexander Kirillov, Eric Mintun, Nikhila Ravi, Hanzi Mao, Chloe Rolland, Laura Gustafson, Tete Xiao, Spencer
     Whitehead, Alexander C Berg, Wan-Yen Lo, et al. Segment anything. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.02643, 2023.
[10] Kaiming He, Georgia Gkioxari, Piotr Dollár, and Ross Girshick. Mask r-cnn. In 2017 IEEE International
     Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV), pages 2980–2988, 2017.
[11] Abdul Mueed Hafiz and Ghulam Mohiuddin Bhat. A survey on instance segmentation: state of the art. International
     Journal of Multimedia Information Retrieval, 9(3):171–189, 2020.
[12] Julien Champ, Adan Mora-Fallas, Hervé Goëau, Erick Mata-Montero, Pierre Bonnet, and Alexis Joly. Instance
     segmentation for the fine detection of crop and weed plants by precision agricultural robots. Applications in Plant
     Sciences, 8(7):e11373, 2020.
[13] Samarth Sinha, Peter Gehler, Francesco Locatello, and Bernt Schiele. Test: Test-time self-training under
     distribution shift. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision
     (WACV), pages 2759–2769, January 2023.
[14] Qiang Hu, Yuejun Guo, Xiaofei Xie, Maxime Cordy, Mike Papadakis, Lei Ma, and Yves Le Traon. Codes:
     towards code model generalization under distribution shift. In International Conference on Software Engineering
     (ICSE): New Ideas and Emerging Results (NIER), 2023.
[15] Dongseong Hwang, Ananya Misra, Zhouyuan Huo, Nikhil Siddhartha, Shefali Garg, David Qiu, Khe Chai
     Sim, Trevor Strohman, Françoise Beaufays, and Yanzhang He. Large-scale asr domain adaptation using self-
     and semi-supervised learning. In ICASSP 2022-2022 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and
     Signal Processing (ICASSP), pages 6627–6631. IEEE, 2022.
[16] Fei Pan, Inkyu Shin, Francois Rameau, Seokju Lee, and In So Kweon. Unsupervised intra-domain adaptation
     for semantic segmentation through self-supervision. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
     Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 3764–3773, 2020.
[17] Veenu Rani, Syed Tufael Nabi, Munish Kumar, Ajay Mittal, and Krishan Kumar. Self-supervised learning: A
     succinct review. Archives of Computational Methods in Engineering, 30(4):2761–2775, 2023.
[18] Jure Zbontar, Li Jing, Ishan Misra, Yann LeCun, and Stephane Deny. Barlow twins: Self-supervised learning via
     redundancy reduction. In Marina Meila and Tong Zhang, editors, Proceedings of the 38th International Conference
     on Machine Learning, volume 139 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 12310–12320. PMLR,
     18–24 Jul 2021.
[19] Aditya Ramesh, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alex Nichol, Casey Chu, and Mark Chen. Hierarchical text-conditional image
     generation with clip latents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.06125, 1(2):3, 2022.


                                                          11
                                      Semi-Self-Supervised Domain Adaptation                                 A P REPRINT



[20] Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, and Björn Ommer. High-resolution image
     synthesis with latent diffusion models. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
     Pattern Recognition, pages 10684–10695, 2022.
[21] Florinel-Alin Croitoru, Vlad Hondru, Radu Tudor Ionescu, and Mubarak Shah. Diffusion models in vision: A
     survey. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, 2023.
[22] Ting Chen. On the importance of noise scheduling for diffusion models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.10972, 2023.
[23] Alexander Quinn Nichol and Prafulla Dhariwal. Improved denoising diffusion probabilistic models. In
     International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 8162–8171. PMLR, 2021.
[24] Etienne David, Mario Serouart, Daniel Smith, Simon Madec, Kaaviya Velumani, Shouyang Liu, Xu Wang,
     Francisco Pinto, Shahameh Shafiee, Izzat SA Tahir, et al. Global wheat head detection 2021: An improved dataset
     for benchmarking wheat head detection methods. Plant Phenomics, 2021.
[25] Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun. Deep residual learning for image recognition. In
     Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 770–778, 2016.
[26] Prajit Ramachandran, Barret Zoph, and Quoc V Le. Searching for activation functions. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:1710.05941, 2017.
[27] Alexander Buslaev, Vladimir I Iglovikov, Eugene Khvedchenya, Alex Parinov, Mikhail Druzhinin, and Alexandr A
     Kalinin. Albumentations: fast and flexible image augmentations. Information, 11(2):125, 2020.
[28] Saad Wazir and Muhammad Moazam Fraz. Histoseg: Quick attention with multi-loss function for multi-structure
     segmentation in digital histology images. In 2022 12th International Conference on Pattern Recognition Systems
     (ICPRS), pages 1–7. IEEE, 2022.
[29] Soosan Beheshti, Masoud Hashemi, Ervin Sejdic, and Tom Chau. Mean square error estimation in thresholding.
     IEEE Signal Processing Letters, 18(2):103–106, 2010.
[30] Alain Hore and Djemel Ziou. Image quality metrics: Psnr vs. ssim. In 2010 20th International Conference on
     Pattern Recognition, pages 2366–2369. IEEE, 2010.
[31] Justin Johnson, Alexandre Alahi, and Li Fei-Fei. Perceptual losses for real-time style transfer and super-resolution.
     In Computer Vision–ECCV 2016: 14th European Conference, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 11-14,
     2016, Proceedings, Part II 14, pages 694–711. Springer, 2016.
[32] Adam Paszke, Sam Gross, Francisco Massa, Adam Lerer, James Bradbury, Gregory Chanan, Trevor Killeen,
     Zeming Lin, Natalia Gimelshein, Luca Antiga, Alban Desmaison, Andreas Kopf, Edward Yang, Zachary DeVito,
     Martin Raison, Alykhan Tejani, Sasank Chilamkurthy, Benoit Steiner, Lu Fang, Junjie Bai, and Soumith Chintala.
     Pytorch: An imperative style, high-performance deep learning library. In Advances in Neural Information
     Processing Systems 32, pages 8024–8035. Curran Associates, Inc., 2019.
[33] Ilya Loshchilov and Frank Hutter. Decoupled weight decay regularization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.05101,
     2017.




                                                           12
