bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     An RGB based deep neural network for high fidelity Fusarium head blight phenotyping
     in wheat


     Authors:
     Julian Cooper1, Chuan Du2, Zach Beaver2, Ming Zheng2, Rae Page1, Joseph R.
     Wodarek3, Oadi Matny1, Tamas Szinyei1, Alejandra Quiñones1, James A. Anderson4,
     Kevin P. Smith4, Ce Yang5, Brian J. Steffenson1, Cory D. Hirsch1*


     Author affiliations:
     1
         Department of Plant Pathology, University of Minnesota, Saint Paul, MN 55108
     2
         Mineral Earth Sciences LLC., Mountain View, CA 94043
     3
         Northwest Research and Outreach Center, University of Minnesota, Crookston, MN
     56716
     4
         Department of Agronomy and Plant Genetics, University of Minnesota, Saint Paul, MN,
     55108
     5
         Department of Bioproducts and Biosystems Engineering, University of Minnesota,
     Saint Paul, MN 55108
     *
         Corresponding Author: cdhirsch@umn.edu




     Abstract
     Fusarium head blight (FHB) in wheat is an economically important disease, which can
     cause yield losses exceeding 50% and the causal pathogen that infects spikes
     produces harmful mycotoxins. Breeding for host resistance remains the most effective
     disease control method; but time, labor, and human subjectivity during disease scoring
     limits selection advancements. In this study we describe an innovative, high-throughput
     phenotyping rover for capturing in-field RGB images and a deep neural network pipeline
     for wheat spike detection and FHB disease quantification. The image analysis pipeline
     successfully detects wheat spikes from images under variable field conditions,
     segments spikes and diseased tissue in the spikes, and quantifies disease severity as
     the region of intersection between spike and disease masks. Model inferences on an
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     individual spike and plot basis were compared to human visual disease scoring in the
     field and on imagery for model evaluation. The precision and throughput of the model
     surpassed traditional field rating methods. The accuracy of FHB severity assessments
     of the model was equivalent to human disease annotations of images, however
     individual spike disease assessment was influenced by field location. The model was
     able to quantify FHB in images taken with different camera orientations in an unseen
     year, which demonstrates strong generalizability. This innovative pipeline represents a
     breakthrough in FHB phenotyping, offering precise and efficient assessment of FHB on
     both individual spikes and plot aggregates. The model is robust to different conditions
     and the potential to standardize disease evaluation methods across the community
     make it a valuable tool for studying and managing this economically significant fungal
     disease.


     Introduction
                Fusarium head blight (FHB) is an economically significant disease of wheat
     (Triticum aestivum), caused by the fungal pathogen Fusarium graminearum. Yield
     losses from FHB can exceed 50% under favorable conditions, and in the U.S. 28 million
     tons of wheat grain are estimated to be lost annually to this disease (Savary et al.,
     2019; Friskop et al., 2021). Additionally, the causal organisms of FHB can produce
     mycotoxins which are harmful to humans and animals and reduce the market value of
     the grain (McMullen et al., 2012). Fungicides have been utilized to control FHB
     outbreaks, but their use is limited by the cost of the chemicals and short window
     surrounding heading when they can be applied (Beyer et al., 2006). To help guide
     fungicide use decisions with risk assessments, local weather-based forecasting models
     have been developed (Shah et al., 2013). Numerous forecasting models have been
     developed around the world, including the National FHB risk model commonly used
     throughout North America (Cowger et al., 2020), but they are often highly specific to
     their region of origin which limits widespread use of a single model. Crop rotation and
     residue control are also forms of cultural control, but regional changes are required to
     limit infection from nearby inoculum sources (Dill-Macky and Jones, 2000). The
     effectiveness of chemical and cultural control methods varies and favorable weather
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     conditions can still lead to disease epidemics (Torres et al., 2019). Breeding and
     growing resistant germplasm can consistently reduce FHB infection by 30-50% and is
     the most effective strategy for both short and long-term management of FHB to protect
     global food supply and food safety (McMullen et al., 2012; Buerstmayr et al., 2020).
                Plant resistance to FHB is quantitative, and effective in-field phenotyping is
     necessary to identify the many small effect loci that confer meaningful resistance
     (Serajazari et al., 2023). The symptoms of the disease can often be mistaken for normal
     plant maturity, which makes phenotyping subjective and increases rater variation. In
     addition, variable severity between spikes within a plot increases the time and labor
     necessary for disease ratings to accurately capture host response (Kant et al., 2011).
     Research groups use different rating methods to capture disease variability and host
     response. By averaging the number of infected kernels from multiple individual spikes or
     giving a 0-100% disease severity score to a random sample of spikes in a plot,
     researchers are able to limit subjectivity, but time and labor requirements are high
     (Huang et al., 2018; Serajazari et al., 2023). In contrast, assigning a 0-100% aggregate
     disease severity based on a full plot visual inspection reduces time and labor, but
     introduces greater human bias to disease scoring (Talas et al., 2012). Furthermore, the
     lack of a standard measurement for FHB severity limits the usefulness of data sharing
     across the community (Leonelli et al., 2017). A standardized FHB disease assessment
     method that is objective, high-throughput, high resolution, and less labor intensive
     would increase the selection accuracy for resistant germplasm. It would also increase
     the scope and scale of disease testing, and fill the need to develop standard
     phenotyping protocols, nomenclature, annotation, and databases to enable comparative
     phenomics across this internationally important disease.
                Many types of imaging sensors and platforms are used for field-based high-
     throughput phenotyping (Sweet et al., 2022). Satellites, unoccupied aerial vehicles, and
     rovers have been used with different types of sensors for disease detection (Raza et al.,
     2020; Sandino et al., 2018; Su et al., 2020). Red-Green-Blue (RGB) cameras capture
     visible light from 400-700 nm and can be used to detect disease symptoms
     (Amarasingam et al., 2022). Hyperspectral cameras capture wavelengths across the
     electromagnetic radiation spectrum and have been used to identify plant disease before
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     visible symptoms occur (Behmann et al., 2014). Various non-spectral sensors are also
     commonly employed in agriculture and plant pathology settings, including light detection
     and ranging (LiDAR) and thermal devices (Eitel et al., 2014; Kefauver et al., 2017). The
     choice of platform and sensor to use for phenotyping is often dictated by cost, the
     features of the trait of interest, and scale at which phenotyping needs to occur. The
     Fusarium species causing FHB infect wheat spikes, which are relatively small plant
     organs; thus, using high resolution terrestrial phenotyping is thought to be an effective
     method for screening individual plants compared to aerial or atmospheric imaging. In
     addition, the large scope and scale of FHB phenotyping needs in research and breeding
     groups favors inexpensive and easy methods to deploy RGB sensors rather than more
     expensive and complex options (Adão et al., 2017).
                Various methods have been used in wheat for high-throughput phenotyping of
     FHB (Alisaac and Mahlein, 2023). Using different deep learning architectures, spike and
     disease segmentation has been performed based on RGB images from commercial
     cameras (Gu et al., 2020; Hong et al., 2022; Rößle et al., 2023). General classification
     of diseased versus healthy wheat spikes has been performed using multiple types of
     machine learning models. A classification model based on the AlexNet research
     network classified preprocessed diseased spike images, taken from controlled in-door
     settings, into six ordinal classes based on severity. The use of high resolution images
     taken at 90 degrees to the spike during grain fill produced the best model accuracy (Gu
     et al., 2020). In-field based FHB phenotyping has also been of interest. Using deep
     learning architecture based on You Only Look Once v4 and MobileNet, FHB detection
     of wheat spikes was performed on images taken with an RGB camera in a field setting
     with 94% accuracy (Hong et al., 2022). Detecting diseased wheat spikes is important for
     field scouting but has limited applications when studying host–pathogen interactions
     without the ability to classify or quantify disease severity on the spike. Recently, image
     classification based on both presence and level of disease has been performed. Using a
     multi-year, multi-rater dataset captured using RGB cameras, researchers at AIMotion
     Bavaria were able to detect disease in the field and classify spikes into six severity
     levels by employing an EfficientNet-based neural network for image analysis. Images
     from multiple years improved the accuracy and decreased the root mean square error
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     and in-field inter-rater reliability was lower than the model to raters (Rößle et al., 2023).
     Manual photography with commercial cameras requires additional human operators and
     cameras to increase the number of plots and images that can be collected, which limits
     phenotyping efforts for many large breeding and research programs.
                By utilizing high-throughput phenotyping platforms, the scope of in-field disease
     detection can be expanded by reducing imaging time and labor. Images captured using
     a push cart were analyzed using a mask region convolutional neural network to detect
     FHB symptoms and assess severity on wheat spikes. The accuracies of wheat spike
     and disease detection were both high, and the pipeline was able to classify spikes into
     15 severity stages with a 77% accuracy compared to ground truth (Su et al., 2020).
                Previous studies have shown that detection of wheat spikes and FHB disease is
     possible in field conditions; however, low-throughput platforms for sensor deployment
     limits the scale of studies and the highly variable nature of FHB ground truth
     measurement makes model evaluation difficult (Rößle et al., 2023; Siou et al., 2014).
     Multiple raters are required to quantify the precision of human FHB measurements and
     create a reference standard for results. Thus, model efficacy should be determined by
     comparing accuracy against any individual human to determine if image analysis is a
     sufficient measurement replacement. Additional research is required to quantify multi-
     rater in-field and image based disease rating variation. This is necessary to empirically
     understand rater variation across phenotyping techniques, which would allow a more
     robust understanding of model outputs and human ratings, resulting in a deeper
     understanding and confidence in the model.
                Advances in FHB image analysis and the development of a robust pipeline with
     demonstrated applications across years and camera configurations is needed to
     standardize phenotyping across research groups. The pipeline should be capable of
     precise disease quantification on single spikes to facilitate studies of host and pathogen
     interactions. In addition, the pipeline should be able to accurately aggregate plot
     disease scores for selections by breeders seeking to improve FHB resistance. This
     study describes a robust, neural network-based pipeline trained using images from
     multiple field locations in a single with the ability to quantify FHB in individual spikes
     across years. A comprehensive validation study was concurrently performed to assess
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     pipeline results and quantify inter-rater reliability during field disease scoring and
     manual image annotations of FHB. Employing this disease assessment pipeline
     facilitates accurate and precise aggregate disease ratings for plots and opens novel
     avenues to elucidate host-pathogen interactions in the field through spike level
     resolution.


     Materials and Methods

     Field Design and FHB Inoculation
                Wheat genotypes from the University of Minnesota wheat breeding program were
     grown in 2021 and 2022 at the University of Minnesota Agricultural Experiment Station
     in Saint Paul, MN (StP) and the Northwest Research and Outreach Center in
     Crookston, MN (Crk). Plants were grown in four row plots with each row being 1.5 m
     long, with 0.3 m row spacing, and 1.2 m alleys between plots. Plots in 2021 were
     planted in paired (two inner rows planted with the same genotype and two outer rows
     planted with winter wheat) and single (all four rows of the plot were planted with a
     different genotype) row configurations. In 2022, four replications of twenty genotypes
     were specifically planted in paired-row plots in StP and Crk for pipeline validation
     purposes. These genotypes represented a diverse range of spike colors, shapes,
     densities, and FHB disease responses.
                In 2021, StP and Crk field trials were planted on May 12 and May 28,
     respectively. In 2022, StP was planted on May 10 and Crk on May 24. The field trials
     were inoculated with isolates of F. graminearum to promote FHB infection as previously
     described (Dill-Macky, 2003; Fuentes et al., 2005). Briefly, macroconidial inoculum of
     the pathogen was applied to the spikes when each plot was at anthesis using a CO2-
     powered backpack sprayer. A second inoculation was performed three to four days later
     to ensure that later tillers received inoculum at a time when they would be receptive to
     infection. In addition, paired row plots at StP and Crk were infected with grain spawn
     that was applied at the jointing stage and again seven days after jointing using
     previously described methods (Gilbert and Woods, 2006). To promote infection by
     Fusarium, the plots were irrigated with overhead sprinklers at or shortly before
     inoculation and continued through to the final disease assessment.
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     Manual Field Ratings of FHB
                Manual field rating of disease was performed in StP and Crk in 2022 by five
     raters, designated A-E. Disease severity was assessed as a plot aggregate. A score
     from 0-100% in 5% intervals was given by each rater based on the average FHB
     severity of spikes across a row. Prior to visual disease scoring, raters were shown a
     series of five diseased plots with a range of disease symptoms, including a susceptible
     check with >70% disease, to establish disease standards (Bock et al., 2022). The time
     required by each rater to manually score all the plots at a location was recorded. In StP,
     disease scoring was performed by all raters on July 18. In Crk, disease scoring by all
     raters was performed within a 24 hour time period between July 27 and 28. The rating
     dates were chosen to maximize disease progression, while minimizing the onset of
     natural plant senescence and were approximately 18-21 days after the final
     inoculations. Due to the confounding effect of natural plant senescence on disease
     assessment, plots designated as senesced were omitted from subsequent ratings and
     analysis. The same raters also completed manual disease annotations on images
     acquired during the 2022 season.


     Rover Based RGB Image Acquisition
                Image acquisition was performed using an electric powered four-wheeled, semi-
     enclosed phenotyping rover designed, made, and supported by Mineral Earth Sciences
     LLC. (Figure S1a). The rover measured 2.1 m long and 3 m tall. The lateral wheel base
     was 1.3 m wide in StP and 1.2 m in Crk. A single person drove the rover with a remote
     control and also triggered image acquisitions. Imaging was controlled through a custom
     user interface through a Samsung Galaxy S20 smartphone that wirelessly connected to
     the rover through a MikroTik network router. Images from camera A and a Global
     Navigation Satellite System Real-Time Kinematic (GNSS-RTK) receiver allowed sub-10
     cm precise registration of plots and captured images during operation. Images were
     stored on two internally mounted hard drives for data preservation. The rover
     accommodated eight Basler acA2500-20gc cameras for RGB image collection. In 2021,
     the rover was driven at 1.0 m/s. Images for model building from 2021 field trials were
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     collected using side cameras C, D, G, H, I, and J (Figure S1b). After preliminary testing
     in 2021 to determine the optimal camera height, angle, and resolution for single spike
     imaging, cameras C and D were reconfigured for 2022 (Figure S1c). These cameras
     were mounted at 125 cm within the rover enclosure and oriented at 39 degrees to
     image plants between 30 cm and 112 cm in height. In addition, the rover driving speed
     was reduced to 0.5 m/s in 2022 to further improve image quality. The camera
     configuration change and reduced rover speed in 2022 facilitated high resolution
     imaging of spikes.
                Imaging was performed once a week from emergence to heading, and twice a
     week from the onset of disease symptoms through senescence. In 2021, image
     collection was performed on single and pair-row plots from June 11 to August 10 in StP
     and June 16 to August 3 in Crk. In 2022, images from paired-row plots were captured
     on ten different dates in StP from June 17 to July 25 and six different days in Crk from
     June 23 to August 3. The rover captured images automatically at eight frames/second.
     In 2022, it took an average of 588 seconds to image 80 plots at each location. An
     average of 37643 images were taken during each imaging session from all eight
     cameras. A single plot took approximately 7 seconds to complete and resulted in 471
     images from all cameras, which is approximately 59 images per camera per plot. After
     images were registered to plots and the edges of plots excluded to remove any edge
     effects, there were on average 22 images captured per camera per plot.


     RGB image processing
                Images from each plot were selected, aligned, and overlaid using GNSS-RTK
     coordinates. Plot boundaries were drawn and future images were registered to these
     predetermined plots based on location in subsequent scans. In addition, images
     registered outside plot boundaries, including alleys and edges of the field, were omitted
     from downstream analysis. In 2021, images from cameras C, D, G, H, I, and J were
     randomly sampled between June 22 and August 3 for model building (Figure S1d). In
     2022, a subset of eight images, four each from cameras C and D, were sampled across
     the plot to minimize repeated images of spikes in pipeline assessment (Figure S1e,
     Figure S2).
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     Modeling workflow
                An automatic image analysis pipeline was developed to output FHB disease
     levels per spike using images collected by the phenotyping rover (Figure 1). Four
     models were developed that detected and segmented wheat spikes in the field,
     segmented FHB disease on the spikes, and determined spike gradability (image
     quality). For each model, a random sample of images from paired and/or single row
     plots were used from 2021 collected images. Images acquired from the 2022 field trials
     were not used in any model training, but instead were utilized for overall pipeline
     assessment and cross-year model validation. All image annotations were done by the
     raters using an internal Google data labeling platform.


     Spike Detection
                A spike detection model was developed to identify wheat spikes in complex
     images from variable field conditions (Figure 1). Labeled examples from 2021 field trials
     spanning multiple dates in StP and Crk were used to capture spikes at different growth
     stages. Images were randomly selected from plots throughout the field to capture
     diverse spike morphologies. Images from side cameras I, J, C, D, G, and H in 2021
     were used for model development (Figure S1b). A collection of 2048 images were
     randomly split into 90% training and 10% evaluation sets. Spikes were categorized into
     two classes: “wheat spike” or “other”. The “other” class consisted of weeds with similar
     characteristics as wheat spikes, such as foxtail (Setaria species). This explicitly trained
     the model to learn the difference between wheat and non-wheat spikes to reduce false
     positives. Input images were resized to a resolution of 1024 x 1024 pixels and roughly
     80% of images that contained no labeled wheat spikes were removed to ensure that
     images from before heading did not overwhelm the model during training. The
     CenterNet architecture with an Hourglass-104 backbone was used for object detection
     and initialized with weights from models trained to detect wheat spikes from images
     collected in Mexico. This model identifies objects as a triplet using information from the
     top-left, bottom-right, and central regions to improve precision and recall (Duan et al.,
     2019).
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     Spike Segmentation
                To determine total spike area for subsequent disease annotation, a spike
     segmentation model was trained (Figure 1). The labels for the model were obtained by
     randomly sampling 1000 images from dates after heading, running the spike detection
     model on each image to identify wheat spikes, and then randomly sampling at most five
     spikes from each image for labeling by raters. This ensured a wide variety of spike
     morphologies were used in developing the model. Each training example consisted of a
     single detected spike, with a mask drawn over the wheat spike. In the event that
     another spike was present within the bounding box due to close proximity, the center
     most spike was labeled with a mask. Images were resized to 128 x 128 pixels prior to
     training and any images lacking masks (i.e. potentially representing false positives from
     the detection model) were dropped. The U-Net deep learning architecture was used for
     semantic segmentation (Ronneberger et al., 2015). The dataset for the model consisted
     of 4974 spikes which were randomly split into 90% training and 10% evaluation sets.


     Wheat FHB Segmentation
                To develop the FHB segmentation model, the five raters were provided with
     randomly sampled full images containing spikes within a plot captured from camera C or
     G in 2021. A bounding box was placed around a single detected spike for disease
     annotation in order to provide plot level context to the rater. At most, 5 spikes per image
     were labeled (Figure 1). A total of 1208 images were annotated by the five raters, 313
     from July 22, 332 from July 27, and 563 from August 3. The dates that the images were
     sampled from were the dates closest to when in-field ratings were performed to ensure
     that sufficient levels of FHB symptoms were present. The number of images for
     annotation of FHB symptoms on the spikes was evenly spread across the five raters.
     The raters drew a polygon around the symptomatic region(s) on the spike to label the
     disease for model training. Cropped spikes with manually annotated disease masks
     were used to train the U-Net architecture for disease segmentation (Ronneberger et al.,
     2015). Training images were resized to 256 x 256 pixels and were randomly split into
     80% training and 20% evaluation sets.
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     Spike Gradability
                A wheat specific gradability model was trained to ensure high image quality of
     spikes used for final disease assessment (Figure 1). A total of 3072 annotated spike
     examples were used for model training. Images were taken from the same dates used
     for disease annotation. There were 854 images used from July 22, 2021, 788 from July
     27, 2021, and 1430 from August 3, 2021. The raters “skipped” spike images of low
     quality when performing their FHB disease segmentation labeling. The spikes were
     assigned an “ungradable” label (label ID = 1) if the spike was skipped, otherwise the
     image was deemed “gradable” (label ID = 0). Of the 3072 sample spikes, 1376 (44.8%)
     were found to be gradable and 1696 (55.2%) were ungradable. Although a high
     percentage of spikes were deemed ungradable, this was expected as the image is
     capturing many heads in the plot, but not all of them are in the optimal focal range of the
     camera. The frame rate of the camera and number of times each spike was represented
     in subsequent images as the rover moved through the field gives us confidence that the
     majority of non-occluded spikes will be deemed gradable in at least one image.
     Gradable spikes were typically in focus with good color contrast for raters to identify and
     label FHB symptoms. Ungradable spikes were often blurry, small, over or under
     exposed, occluded, a mistaken weed species, or marked with spray paint for field
     marking purposes. Gradability sample images were fed into a deep learning model
     based on ResNet101x3 to maximize accuracy gained from increased layer depth (He et
     al., 2015). Data was randomly split into 80% training and 20% evaluation sets. The
     training examples had 1109 gradable and 1333 ungradable images and the evaluation
     set had 267 gradable and 363 ungradable spike examples.


     FHB Severity Calculation
                The calculation of FHB severity per spike was conducted by determining the ratio
     of disease-afflicted pixels to the total number of pixels constituting the wheat spike
     (Figure 1). Only disease pixels that intersected with the spike segmentation pixels were
     considered in this computation. Any instances of disease presence occurring outside
     the spike, potentially attributable to background interference, like the presence of
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     another head or unrelated discoloration that might resemble disease, were excluded
     from this calculation by using spike segmentation boundaries.


     Manual Image Annotation
                To assess the precision and accuracy of the FHB automatic image analysis
     pipeline, manual image annotation was performed on images captured during the 2022
     field season and compared against model inference results. Images were selected from
     Crk on July 28 and StP on July 18 to align with manual field rating dates. Four of the
     five raters used to annotate images for model building in 2021 were retained for model
     evaluation efforts in 2022. These raters will be referred to as raters A-D. A new fifth
     rater, rater E, was added in 2022 for additional validation efforts. Rater expertise ranged
     from complete novice to experts with more than a decade of in-field FHB disease
     scoring experience.
                Two subsets of images for manual disease annotation were created. The first
     subset had 8184 distinct spike images for large scale annotation in order to judge rater
     skip rates and obtain enough disease scores to calculate plot averages. To determine
     the number of spikes to annotate, a dynamic sampling strategy was employed based on
     2021 model inferences. This sampling strategy was used to minimize required labeling
     time. Taking into account that FHB infection is typically not uniform across a plot, the
     standard deviation of disease severity for spikes within each plot was calculated. It is
     expected that plots with around 50% disease severity will exhibit the highest standard
     deviation compared to lower and higher disease levels. Thus, plots with low and high
     disease levels would require fewer labels to capture the variation within a plot compared
     to plots with a moderate level of disease. With a specified FHB error tolerance of 2c =
     10%, where c = 5%, the required number of labels was determined as (standard
     deviation / c)2. The total number of labels sent for labeling was initially calculated
     assuming 70% gradable spikes and a 99% probability of reaching the desired number of
     required labels per plot. This number was rounded up to distribute an equal number of
     labels to each rater. To account for potential incorrect labels, the required number of
     labels had a factor of safety of 1.5. Each rater was given a unique random sample of
     spikes from the 8184 spikes distributed across StP and Crk paired-row plots. Raters A-
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     E first assessed image quality and then determined if images were gradable or
     ungradable. Images deemed ungradable were skipped. Each image was then manually
     annotated for areas showing FHB symptoms using a Google internal data labeling
     platform with a freeform shape tool.
                From the gradable spikes in the large scale annotation image subset, 200 spikes
     were selected to assemble an inter-rater reliability annotation image dataset. Each of
     these images was annotated by all five raters. To assemble the dataset, labeled large
     scale annotation spikes were binned into discrete categories based on disease severity,
     from 0-10% to 80+% in 10% increments. Spikes were randomly selected from each bin
     to ensure all disease scores were represented in the inter-rater reliability analysis. Thirty
     spikes were sampled from the [0-10] and [10-20] classes because low disease
     percentages occurred more frequently in the dataset. Twenty spikes were selected from
     each of the remaining categories. Six spikes were selected from each rater for the 30-
     label categories, and four spikes were selected from each rater for the 20-label
     categories. Images from StP and Crk were sampled evenly.


     Statistical analysis
                Data analysis and visualization of manual field ratings, manual image annotation,
     and pipeline image annotation results was performed in R version 4.3.1 within R Studio
     version 1.4.1717 using the ggplot2 and tidyverse packages (Wickham, 2016; Wickham
     et al., 2019; RStudio Team, 2020; R Core Team, 2022). Linear regression and related
     functions were performed using the R lme4 package (Bates et al., 2015). Intraclass
     correlations were performed using the R irr package (Gamer et al., 2019).


     Results
     Manual field rating agreement between raters is affected by disease severity and
     experience
                FHB infection can be quite variable among wheat plants within a row, making
     visual assessments of plot aggregate disease severity difficult. To establish a minimum
     correlation threshold for evaluating our FHB image analysis pipeline, five raters scored
     aggregate FHB severities for plots in StP and Crk in 2022. In both locations, 80 plots
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     were assessed for FHB levels. The phenotyping rover was run at these locations on
     these dates to pair subsequent images used for manual (done by raters) and pipeline
     image annotation (model output) with field ground truth. In Crk and StP, the average
     disease severity of visual manual in-field ratings was 21.4% and 37.7%, respectively
     (Figure 2a). Of the five raters, raters A-D had very similar disease scores and standard
     deviations, which shows the variation of FHB severity between plots could be accurately
     discerned. The average disease scores for raters A-D were 18.4 to 26.1% (standard
     deviation of 12.8 to 16.3%) in Crk and 33.1 to 36.3% in StP (standard deviation of 13.9
     to 21.7%). In Crk, rater E had the lowest average disease score of 12.9%, while in StP
     rater E had the highest average disease score of 48.9%. In both Crk and StP, rater E
     had the lowest standard deviations of 9.4% and 10.6%, respectively.
                The research experience of the raters working on FHB ranged from 0 to 22 years
     (Figure 2b). Rater E had the least experience, with 2022 being their first summer of
     disease rating. Rater A had the most experience with 22 years of FHB scoring. The
     average duration that each rater took to assess FHB on 80 plots at the two locations
     ranged from 23 to 80 minutes. On average across all the raters, it took 44 minutes to
     manually rate the plots in Crk and StP. For the limited sample size of raters in this
     study, there was not a statistically significant relationship between FHB experience and
     rating duration (p = 0.77, R² = 0.01). In contrast, the phenotyping rover took about ten
     minutes, approximately 20% of the time required for a single person to visually rate the
     same plots in the field.
                The agreement of the five raters on in-field plot level disease scoring was
     influenced by location-specific disease severity and rater experience. When combining
     the in-field disease ratings from both locations, pairwise Pearson correlations between
     any two individual raters ranged from 0.43 to 0.87 (Figure 2c, Table 1). The least
     experienced rater, rater E, had on average a 0.51 correlation with the other raters which
     was the lowest correlation. In contrast, raters A-D had at least one summer of FHB
     rating experience and correlated highly with one another with an average 0.84
     correlation. An intraclass correlation was calculated to understand how raters’ in-field
     assessments correlated when considering them as a group instead of in pairwise
     fashion. The intraclass correlation among all raters across both locations combined was
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     0.66, with a 95% confidence interval of 0.60 to 0.73 (Table 1). When looking at the
     correlation of raters in each rating location, StP had an average Pearson correlation of
     0.69 and an intraclass correlation of 0.51, with a 95% confidence interval of 0.40 to
     0.62. The Crk location had an average Pearson correlation of 0.87 and an intraclass
     correlation of 0.70, with a 95% confidence interval of 0.62 to 0.78. This indicates
     location influenced the correlations of FHB disease ratings of the raters, with the Crk
     location having closer in-field disease scores between the five raters.


     Relationship between in-field plot averages, manual image annotations plot
     averages, and model output of individual spike disease scores

                To compare the precision and accuracy of manual image annotations to in-field
     ratings for assessing disease severity, two subsets of images were taken, one from Crk
     images taken on July 28, 2022 and one from StP images taken on July 18, 2022 (Figure
     3). For both datasets, it took raters approximately 30 seconds to annotate disease on
     each spike. The large scale manual annotation image dataset consisted of 8184 images
     and was used to evaluate gradability and FHB disease severity per spike. Within this
     dataset, 54% of the spike images were skipped by the annotators, which classified the
     spike as ungradable. Between locations, an average of 46% of the spike images from
     Crk and 59% of the spike images from StP were labeled as ungradable by the five
     raters. The skip rates of spikes, or ungradable classification, among raters ranged from
     32% by rater B to 84% by rater A. This indicates a strong subjectivity among raters for
     what constitutes an unambiguous or high enough resolution image of a spike that can
     be reliably rated for FHB symptoms. Of the total 8184 spike images, 4526 were
     annotated for disease by the raters. Of the 4526 spike images that were annotated,
     raters B, D, and E annotated an average of 1177 images, while raters A and C
     annotated 497 images on average. The average FHB percent annotated on spikes by
     each rater was 13.11%; rater D annotated the lowest average FHB percent per spike at
     11.7%, while rater C annotated the highest at 15.2% (Figure S3). This indicates that
     raters annotating high resolution images of wheat spikes for FHB severity would have a
     high level of agreement.
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




                Using the large scale manual image annotation dataset, the percentage of
     disease of all gradable spikes (from all five annotators) from the same plot were
     averaged together to get an aggregate disease score (Figure S4). This was compared
     with disease scores from in-field ratings averaged from all five raters to determine rating
     differences between spike images and in-field ratings. The average plot disease
     severity from manual image annotations across the five raters was 9.7%, while the
     average in-field plot disease severity was 28.7%. This shows either an over-inflation by
     raters in the field or a deflation of disease scoring when raters are looking at individual
     spike images. There was a 0.74 Pearson correlation between the large scale manual
     image annotation and field plot averages (Table 1). Pairwise correlations between plot
     averages rated in the field by a rater and the subsequent plot averages calculated from
     the spikes they annotated in the large scale manual image annotation ranged from 0.75
     to 0.81 for raters A-D. Rater E, the least experienced rater, had a 0.34 correlation
     between their in-field ratings and plot averages calculated from the spikes they
     annotated in the large scale manual image annotation dataset.
                The 200 images used for inter-rater reliability assessments were sampled across
     the disease spectrum from spikes determined to be gradable during the large scale
     manual image annotation evaluations. This meant that a rater determined the spike
     gradable; therefore the image of the spike would be considered of sufficient quality to
     have all raters annotate it for FHB to determine how raters compare in their
     assessments when annotating the same exact spike image. Each spike image from this
     200 image dataset was annotated for disease by all five raters (Figure 3b). The relative
     distribution of disease across the disease spectrum was similar among all raters (Figure
     S5). Notably, there were less spikes graded as moderately diseased, approximately 50
     to 70% disease, by the five raters than was expected in the theoretical disease
     distribution. Likewise, there were also more spikes annotated between 20-30% by raters
     than expected in the theoretical distribution.
                Annotations from the inter-rater reliability image dataset showed that, while the
     exact disease annotations varied between raters, the general location and distribution of
     disease annotations on spike images was consistent among all five raters (Figure 3b). A
     coefficient of variation was calculated to quantify the spread of disease percentages for
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     each spike annotated by all of the raters. The average coefficient of variation for the 200
     spikes was 0.38, which indicated a moderately low dispersion around the mean FHB
     percentage. The Pearson correlations and intraclass correlation were calculated to test
     the relatedness among raters for the inter-rater reliability annotation images (Figure 3c).
     Pairwise agreement was generally high, ranging from 0.67 to 0.92 (Table 2). The most
     experienced rater, rater A, had the lowest correlations with the other raters. Rater E, the
     least experienced rater in this study, had comparable FHB annotation correlations with
     the more experienced D, C, and B raters. Overall agreement among the raters, as
     measured by intraclass correlation, was 0.79, which is 0.13 higher than the intraclass
     correlation of manual in-field ratings (Table 1). Based on these results, raters correlate
     better when looking at high quality images of spikes than when rating whole plots in the
     field.


     The automatic image analysis pipeline output correlates with in-field and manual
     plot averages

                The automatic image analysis pipeline was trained using 2021 data and run on
     images taken from Crk on July 28, 2022 and StP on July 18, 2022 for comparison with
     the manual in-field ratings and the large scale manual image annotation results. It took
     4.75 hours to run the complete pipeline on all images collected by the rover on these
     dates. Disease inferences outputted by the pipeline were examined at a plot and
     individual spike level. The automatic image analysis pipeline was run on images and a
     total of 109501 spikes were detected using the head detection model (Figure S6a),
     61658 spikes from StP and 47843 spikes from Crk. For each spike, the percentage of
     FHB and a gradability probability were determined by the spike segmentation, disease
     segmentation, and spike gradability models. Prior to filtering spikes by gradability
     probability, the average spike FHB percentage in StP was 28.8% and the average in
     Crk was 6.1%. The distribution of spike FHB percentages skewed towards the lower
     end of the disease spectrum (Figure S6b). The gradability threshold was based on a
     classification scale from 1.00 (ungradable) to 0.00 (gradable). Based on this
     classification model, images with a gradability probability <= 0.50 were classified as
     gradable and kept for further analysis. The number of retained spikes and the
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     correlation with in-field and the large scale manual image annotations stabilized at a
     gradability probability <= 0.50 (Figure 4a). After applying the gradability probability filter,
     across the 80 plots at each location 8080 spike images were retained, 4239 from StP
     and 3841 from Crk (Figure S6c). Again, the distribution of spike FHB percentages
     skewed towards the lower end of the disease spectrum (Figure S6d). The average
     percent FHB in StP after filtering was 21.7%, which is lower than before filtering
     ungradable spikes, and the average Crk disease was 6.8%, which is similar to before
     the gradability filter was applied.
                After filtering for gradability, there was a mean of 52 spikes and a median 47
     spikes per plot. Plot level disease averages were calculated from the output of the
     automatic image analysis pipeline results and compared to manual in-field rating plot
     averages that were calculated by averaging all five rater disease scores (Figure 4b). A
     Pearson correlation of 0.85 was observed between the model results from the automatic
     image analysis pipeline and the manual in-field rating results (Figure 4a/b, Table 1). The
     Pearson correlations within separate locations were slightly higher in StP than in Crk,
     0.92 and 0.88, respectively. The plot averages from the large scale manual image
     annotation image dataset, calculated by averaging spike FHB percentages from all five
     raters within a plot, were also compared to the automatic image analysis pipeline model
     inferences (Figure 4b). The Pearson correlation between the automatic image analysis
     pipeline and the large scale manual image annotations was 0.75 (Figure 4a/b, Table 1),
     and 0.82 and 0.83 in StP and Crk, respectively.
                To determine if the image analysis pipeline could accurately determine FHB
     percentage of individual spikes, the automatic image analysis pipeline disease
     inferences were compared to the inter-rater reliability dataset (200 spike images). As
     the spikes in this dataset had already been classified as gradable by the raters, no
     gradability filtering was applied. When the automatic image annotation pipeline was
     used to inference FHB severity on spikes from the inter-rater reliability annotation
     subset, the intraclass correlation between model results and all rater annotations was
     0.75 (Figure 4c, Table 2). The Pearson correlation with individual rater annotations
     ranged from 0.63 to 0.83 (Table 2). The automatic image analysis on the inter-rater
     reliability dataset correlated with all raters equally or slightly less than pairwise
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     correlations among raters B-E, and exceeded rater A correlations with the other raters
     using the 200 image dataset (Figure 4c). Interestingly the performance of the automatic
     image analysis pipeline was influenced by location. In StP, the intraclass correlation
     between the pipeline output and raters using the inter-rater reliability dataset was 0.67,
     with the Pearson correlation for individual raters ranging from 0.58 to 0.82. Inferences
     on spikes from Crk had an intraclass correlation of 0.84, with the Pearson correlation
     ranging from 0.75 to 0.94. In all comparisons the automatic image analysis pipeline FHB
     severity inferences had the lowest agreement with rater A.
                The performance of the automatic image annotation pipeline on spike images
     from the large scale manual annotation image dataset was compared to manual
     annotations on the large scale manual image dataset (Figure 4d). Unlike the inter-rater
     reliability image dataset, raters did not annotate the same spikes so no intraclass
     correlations could be calculated. There was a 0.70 Pearson correlation between the
     pipeline and rater disease annotation results, with individual model-rater pairs having
     correlations between 0.65 and 0.82 (Table 2). Images from StP had a lower overall
     correlation of 0.70 between model and raters compared to Crk, which had a higher
     correlation of 0.89. The average disease per spike for StP was 36.1% from the
     automatic image analysis and 13.6% from the raters and in Crk it was 10.9% and
     11.6%, respectively (Figure S7).


     Discussion


     Image annotation is faster, more precise, and more accurate than manual field
     ratings
                Manual disease rating is tedious, slow, and results are often subjective and
     biased by human error (Araus et al., 2018). Previous research has shown that visual
     ratings may be influenced by overestimation of disease at low disease severities,
     preferred rating values, and confounding host characteristics (Bock et al., 2020). When
     assessing the accuracy and precision of our FHB ratings, Pearson correlations and
     intraclass correlation values were used to assess relative rater agreement, rather than
     using mean absolute error due to the lack of a gold-standard FHB score available for
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     reference. Instead, we prioritized accurately capturing variance in disease levels, similar
     to how breeders will often use reference varieties to compare FHB reaction, rather than
     using absolute disease severity numbers. We found that, while manual in-field rating
     correlations between experienced raters were high for FHB, the inexperienced rater with
     no prior FHB scoring experience had extremely low correlations with other raters.
     Seasonal, field research teams are often made up of new, inexperienced raters.
     Employee retention and training represents a significant barrier to researchers studying
     FHB. Combined with the aforementioned limitations-cost, speed, tedious nature, and
     subjectivity of rating FHB disease ratings can quickly be compromised and error prone
     which will reduce the heritability of disease resistance.
                Image annotations by raters and the developed automatic imaging analysis
     pipeline were more precise than field disease scores. The agreement of raters across
     the manual image annotation datasets was higher than rater agreement of FHB visual
     disease scoring in the field, including between both new and experienced raters.
     Moderately strong correlations between plot averages from spikes in the manual image
     annotation dataset and in-field ratings demonstrated that image analysis is an
     appropriate and effective method for in-field FHB quantification. Although more precise
     and accurate than in-field ratings, annotating individual spikes from images is too time
     and labor intensive to be a viable replacement for disease assessment. As a limited
     number of spikes could be reasonably be manually annotated in each season, plot
     averages would be determined by a small sample of spikes which might not capture the
     true FHB severity of the plot. By taking the manual image annotation results we
     developed an automated image annotation pipeline that was able to have high accuracy
     and precision in FHB severity rating and also be able to process images with little labor
     and maximize the number of spikes evaluated. The automatic image annotation
     inference results were generated about two to three times faster than manual
     annotations and parallelization would greatly improve the run time of the pipeline on
     large image datasets.
                High-throughput phenotyping methods also increase the speed of data collection
     across traits and species (Tanger et al., 2017; Sun et al., 2017). The in-field rating
     method used in this study was chosen to maximize speed for comparison against the
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     rover, yet visual disease rating was about five times slower than acquiring images with
     the rover no matter the experience level of the rater. More objective disease
     quantification methods that might improve inter-rater reliability would require even
     greater time and labor investments (Stack and McMullen, 1998). These time constraints
     limit the number of genotypes and environments that can be evaluated for FHB in any
     given year.


     Automatic image analysis pipeline can accurately quantify FHB severity on a
     spike and per plot basis
                Previous FHB deep learning models have had success in spike and disease
     detection and classification (Hong et al., 2022; Su et al., 2020; Rößle et al., 2023). To
     push the research forward requires efficient disease quantification on individual spikes
     at scale. Using the high-throughput rover and our automatic image analysis pipeline for
     FHB severity, we demonstrated the ability to accurately and efficiently quantify FHB
     severity on an individual spike and plot levels. The automatic image analysis pipeline
     inferences for single spike images displayed moderate to high accuracy when
     compared to manual image annotation results. When comparing the same spikes
     annotated by the automatic image analysis pipeline and by raters in the inter-rater
     reliability image dataset, the intraclass correlation showed little change when adding
     pipeline FHB severity inferences with rater annotation results together (Table 2). The
     range of pairwise correlations between the pipeline FHB severity ratings and individual
     raters was also within the range of correlations among rater pairs for all manual image
     annotation datasets.
                Some differences between FHB severity pipeline and rater disease scores may
     be due to individual human tendencies during image annotations. For example, there
     was a slight deviation between theoretical FHB severity and human annotations for
     inter-rater reliability images (Figure S5). In particular, fewer spikes were rated as
     moderately diseased (~50-70%) than expected based on pipeline inferences, but more
     spikes were annotated at the ends of the FHB disease spectrum (<25% and >75%).
     This may be due to a tendency of raters to rate small individual areas of disease or
     mark an entire spike as diseased, but be less thorough when multiple, variable areas of
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     disease symptoms were present. It was also observed in annotations of the manual
     annotation image sets that raters had their own tendencies during disease annotations.
     For example, rater A had the lowest correlations in inter-rater reliability images and also
     had highest skip rates during large scale manual image annotations. There were
     multiple spikes marked as 0% disease by rater A that the model and other raters
     annotated as greater than 75%. Due to the difficulty and scope of phenotyping FHB, a
     definitive gold standard disease score is difficult to obtain in these cases. These results
     demonstrate that even when controlling for confounding factors in manual image
     analysis, it is difficult to completely remove human bias in disease phenotyping, no
     matter the nature of the task.
                The imaging location also had an impact on the automatic image analysis
     pipeline results. The intraclass correlation between raters and the pipeline for the 200
     image inter-rater reliability dataset was 0.84 in Crk, compared to 0.67 in StP. Similarly,
     the correlation between the pipeline and the large scale manual image annotation spike
     dataset was 0.70 in StP and 0.89 in Crk. Furthermore, the lowest pairwise correlations
     between manual rater and the pipeline inferences were always found in StP. Plant-
     pathogen interactions may partly explain differences between locations. Severity of FHB
     infection and rate of wheat flowering and maturation is heavily influenced by
     environmental factors (Moreno-Amores et al., 2020). The U-Net model trained to
     segment disease has shown good performance in complex backgrounds, but location
     impact on morphology and phenology may still affect model performance (Liu and
     Wang, 2021). In addition, spike images from StP have a more muted green saturation
     than Crk images, which could seem overexposed in some cases (Figure S8). This may
     have caused the FHB detection model to overestimate at StP and increase the
     calculated single spike disease percentage.
                One strength of high-throughput phenotyping is the ability to score many spikes
     within a field to obtain accurate plot disease estimates. The FHB severity pipeline was
     able to predict plot aggregate disease ratings with high accuracy. Correlations between
     the pipeline and manual image annotation plot averages were equivalent to correlations
     between in-field and manual image annotation plot averages. Unlike on an individual
     spike basis, location was not seen to impact relatedness between the pipeline and in-
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     field or manual image annotation plot averages. This shows that over a large random
     sample of images, the pipeline is able to accurately quantify aggregate FHB severities
     regardless of differences in locations. The automatic image analysis pipeline plot
     averages had a higher correlation with in-field ratings than manual image annotation
     scores. We hypothesize this was due to the tendency of the model to inflate disease on
     certain images from StP, conflated with the tendency of human raters to overestimate
     disease during field scoring. The average FHB severity was rated higher in the in-field
     ratings than the manual image analysis. This coincides with previous research that
     showed disease levels on individual spikes tended to skew lower during image analysis
     (Su et al., 2020). Therefore, higher image disease scores would shift the pipeline plot
     averages to be more similar to manual in-field rating results. Conversely, this could be
     viewed as rater image annotations being too conservative compared to in-field and the
     pipeline inference results.
                Another reason for the discrepancy between automatic and manual image
     annotation results may be due to the gradability classification procedure. For plot
     aggregate disease scores, a gradability threshold <= 0.50 was used to filter ungradable
     spike images. For comparison to manually annotated images, gradability was not used
     to preserve manual image annotations performed by raters, and allow a one-to-one
     comparison between the pipeline and raters to be made. However, a drawback of this
     may be that even though a single rater determined a spike image gradable, not all the
     others raters might agree. Also, as classifications done by raters were used to train the
     gradability models, the pipeline might still not be optimized to annotate images with a
     gradability >0.50. This could alter correlations between the automatic and manual image
     annotation analysis. As the model is refined using 2022 images, we expect the number
     of gradable spikes to increase, which may subsequently improve correlations to rater
     manual image annotation results.


     The pipeline is robust across years, camera angles, and locations, however
     additional refinement may be required to optimize across environments
                Along with being more reliable than in-field disease ratings and more efficient
     than manual image annotations, these results demonstrate that the developed FHB
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     severity automatic image analysis pipeline is broadly relevant across a range of real-
     world research applications. One limitation of current FHB research is the lack of a
     consistent method for disease assessment. Different lab groups use different methods
     to score FHB, which makes comparing and consolidating results difficult. The automatic
     image analysis pipeline demonstrated success calculating FHB severity on spikes and
     plots across multiple years and locations. Furthermore, the 2021 images used to train
     the different models used in the pipeline were captured with a different camera
     arrangement than what was used to collect images in 2022 (Figure S1d/e). The ability of
     our models to extrapolate disease beyond its training configuration increases the
     potential for this tool to be useful for researchers without access to the phenotyping
     rover. However, we found that 2022 spike images were smaller than 2021 training
     images, which may have impacted the gradability threshold. Therefore, to maximize the
     number of usable spikes from the pipeline, some fine-tuning may be required for new
     camera orientations and imaging conditions.
                To further test the ability of our model to provide meaningful contributions to FHB
     research, future directions will include updating the pipeline developed using 2021
     images with 2022 images to improve model accuracy. Prospective research leveraging
     the qualities of the pipeline include the time series evaluation of FHB symptoms to study
     host-pathogen interactions and testing the model on additional imaging platforms, such
     as cell phone cameras or unoccupied aerial vehicles, to further reduce phenotyping time
     and hardware requirements.
                In conclusion, we have demonstrated a novel FHB disease assessment pipeline
     capable of single spike and plot aggregate disease scoring. This system has
     demonstrated success across locations, years, and camera angles. Finally, the pipeline
     is more precise than visually in-field disease rating and is as accurate as manual image
     annotations for disease symptoms performed by raters. This FHB image analysis
     pipeline represents a breakthrough in FHB phenotyping that will be relevant and useful
     for studying and managing this economically important fungal disease.
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     Acknowledgements

                This material is based upon work supported by the U.S. Department of
     Agriculture, under Project numbers: 59-0206-1-198 and 59-0206-2-127. This is a
     cooperative project with the U.S. Wheat & Barley Scab Initiative. Any opinions, findings,
     conclusions, or recommendations expressed in this publication are those of the authors
     and do not necessarily reflect the view of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. This
     project was also supported by the University of Minnesota Experimental Station USDA-
     NIFA Hatch project MIN-22-086. Julian Cooper was supported by Bayer Crop Sciences
     as a Bayer Crop Sciences Fellow. We thank Susan Reynolds and all the staff, research
     scientists, postdocs, and graduate and undergraduate students with the University of
     Minnesota wheat and barley breeding groups and the Steffenson group for helping and
     supporting with field experiments.
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     References

     Adão, T., Hruška, J., Pádua, L., Bessa, J., Peres, E., Morais, R. and Sousa, J.J. (2017)
        Hyperspectral Imaging: A Review on UAV-Based Sensors, Data Processing and
        Applications for Agriculture and Forestry. Remote Sensing, 9, 1110. Available at:
        https://www.mdpi.com/233892 [Accessed November 23, 2022].

     Alisaac, E. and Mahlein, A.-K. (2023) Fusarium Head Blight on Wheat: Biology, Modern
         Detection and Diagnosis and Integrated Disease Management. Toxins , 15. Available at:
         http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/toxins15030192.

     Amarasingam, N., Gonzalez, F. and Salgadoe, A.S.A. (2022) Detection of White Leaf
        Disease in Sugarcane Crops Using UAV-Derived RGB Imagery with Existing Deep
        Learning Models. Remote Sensing. Available at: https://www.mdpi.com/1985420.

     Araus, J.L., Kefauver, S.C., Zaman-Allah, M., Olsen, M.S. and Cairns, J.E. (2018)
         Translating High-Throughput Phenotyping into Genetic Gain. Trends Plant Sci., 23, 451–
         466. Available at: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tplants.2018.02.001.

     Bates, D., Mächler, M., Bolker, B. and Walker, S. (2015) Fitting Linear Mixed-Effects Models
         Using lme4. Journal of Statistical Software, 67, 1–48. Available at:
         http://dx.doi.org/10.18637/jss.v067.i01.

     Behmann, J., Steinrücken, J. and Plümer, L. (2014) Detection of early plant stress responses
        in hyperspectral images. ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens., 93, 98–111. Available at:
        https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S092427161400094X.

     Beyer, M., Klix, M.B., Klink, H. and Verreet, J.-A. (2006) Quantifying the effects of previous
        crop, tillage, cultivar and triazole fungicides on the deoxynivalenol content of wheat grain —
        a review. J. Plant Dis. Prot. , 113, 241–246. Available at:
        https://doi.org/10.1007/BF03356188.

     Bock, C.H., Barbedo, J.G.A., Del Ponte, E.M., Bohnenkamp, D. and Mahlein, A.-K. (2020)
        From visual estimates to fully automated sensor-based measurements of plant disease
        severity: status and challenges for improving accuracy. Phytopathology Research, 2, 1–30.
        Available at: https://phytopatholres.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s42483-020-00049-
        8 [Accessed September 8, 2023].

     Bock, C.H., Chiang, K.-S. and Del Ponte, E.M. (2022) Plant disease severity estimated
        visually: a century of research, best practices, and opportunities for improving methods and
        practices to maximize accuracy. Trop. Plant Pathol., 47, 25–42. Available at:
        https://doi.org/10.1007/s40858-021-00439-z.

     Buerstmayr, M., Steiner, B. and Buerstmayr, H. (2020) Breeding for Fusarium head blight
        resistance in wheat—Progress and challenges. Plant Breed., 139, 429–454. Available at:
        https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/pbr.12797.

     Cowger, C., Smith, J., Boos, D., Bradley, C.A., Ransom, J. and Bergstrom, G.C. (2020)
        Managing a Destructive, Episodic Crop Disease: A National Survey of Wheat and Barley
        Growers’ Experience With Fusarium Head Blight. Plant Dis., 104, 634–648. Available at:
        http://dx.doi.org/10.1094/PDIS-10-18-1803-SR.
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     Dill-Macky, R. (2003) Inoculation methods and evaluation of Fusarium head blight resistance in
          wheat. Fusarium head blight of wheat and barley, 184–210. Available at:
          https://www.cabdirect.org/cabdirect/abstract/20033046133.

     Dill-Macky, R. and Jones, R.K. (2000) The Effect of Previous Crop Residues and Tillage on
          Fusarium Head Blight of Wheat. Plant Dis., 84, 71–76. Available at:
          http://dx.doi.org/10.1094/PDIS.2000.84.1.71.

     Duan, K., Bai, S., Xie, L., Qi, H., Huang, Q. and Tian, Q. (2019) CenterNet: Keypoint Triplets
        for Object Detection. arXiv [cs.CV]. Available at: http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.08189.

     Eitel, J.U.H., Magney, T.S., Vierling, L.A., Brown, T.T. and Huggins, D.R. (2014) LiDAR
          based biomass and crop nitrogen estimates for rapid, non-destructive assessment of wheat
          nitrogen status. Field Crops Res., 159, 21–32. Available at:
          https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378429014000161.

     Friskop, A., Bergstrom, G., Bradley, C., et al. (2021) An overview of Fusarium head blight,
         United States of America: Crop Protection Netework. Available at:
         https://cropprotectionnetwork.org/publications/an-overview-of-fusarium-head-blight.

     Fuentes, R.G., Mickelson, H.R., Busch, R.H., et al. (2005) Resource allocation and cultivar
        stability in breeding for Fusarium head blight resistance in spring wheat. Crop Sci., 45,
        1965–1972. Available at: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.2135/cropsci2004.0589.

     Gamer, M., Lemon, J. and <puspendra.pusp22@gmail.com>, I.F.P.S. (2019) irr: Various
        Coefficients of Interrater Reliability and Agreement. Available at: https://CRAN.R-
        project.org/package=irr.

     Gilbert, J. and Woods, S. (2006) Strategies and considerations for multi-location FHB
         screening nurseries. In The global Fusarium initiative for international collaboration: a
         strategic planning workshop. CIMMYT, El Batàn, Mexico. pp. 93–102.

     Gu, C., Wang, D., Zhang, H., Zhang, J., Zhang, D. and Liang, D. (2020) Fusion of Deep
         Convolution and Shallow Features to Recognize the Severity of Wheat Fusarium Head
         Blight. Front. Plant Sci., 11, 599886. Available at:
         http://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2020.599886.

     He, K., Zhang, X., Ren, S. and Sun, J. (2015) Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition.
         arXiv [cs.CV]. Available at: http://arxiv.org/abs/1512.03385.

     Hong, Q., Jiang, L., Zhang, Z., et al. (2022) A Lightweight Model for Wheat Ear Fusarium
        Head Blight Detection Based on RGB Images. Remote Sensing, 14, 3481. Available at:
        https://www.mdpi.com/2072-4292/14/14/3481 [Accessed August 16, 2023].

     Huang, Y., Haas, M., Heinen, S., Steffenson, B.J., Smith, K.P. and Muehlbauer, G.J. (2018)
        QTL mapping of Fusarium head blight and correlated agromorphological traits in an elite
        barley cultivar Rasmusson. Front. Plant Sci., 9, 1260. Available at:
        http://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2018.01260.

     Kant, P., Reinprecht, Y., Martin, C.J., Islam, R. and Pauls, K.P. (2011) 4.59 - Disease
        Resistance/Pathology/Fusarium. In M. Moo-Young, ed. Comprehensive Biotechnology
        (Second Edition). Burlington: Academic Press, pp. 729–743. Available at:
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




           https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780080885049002634.

     Kefauver, S.C., Vicente, R., Vergara-Díaz, O., Fernandez-Gallego, J.A., Kerfal, S., Lopez,
         A., Melichar, J.P.E., Serret Molins, M.D. and Araus, J.L. (2017) Comparative UAV and
         Field Phenotyping to Assess Yield and Nitrogen Use Efficiency in Hybrid and Conventional
         Barley. Front. Plant Sci., 8, 1733. Available at: http://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2017.01733.

     Leonelli, S., Davey, R.P., Arnaud, E., Parry, G. and Bastow, R. (2017) Data management
        and best practice for plant science. Nat Plants, 3, 17086. Available at:
        http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nplants.2017.86.

     Liu, J. and Wang, X. (2021) Plant diseases and pests detection based on deep learning: a
          review. Plant Methods, 17, 22. Available at: http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s13007-021-00722-9.

     McMullen, M., Bergstrom, G., De Wolf, E., Dill-Macky, R., Hershman, D., Shaner, G. and
        Van Sanford, D. (2012) A Unified Effort to Fight an Enemy of Wheat and Barley: Fusarium
        Head Blight. Plant Dis., 96, 1712–1728. Available at: http://dx.doi.org/10.1094/PDIS-03-12-
        0291-FE.

     Moreno-Amores, J., Michel, S., Löschenberger, F. and Buerstmayr, H. (2020) Dissecting
        the Contribution of Environmental Influences, Plant Phenology, and Disease Resistance to
        Improving Genomic Predictions for Fusarium Head Blight Resistance in Wheat. Agronomy,
        10, 2008. Available at: https://www.mdpi.com/2073-4395/10/12/2008 [Accessed September
        8, 2023].

     Raza, M.M., Harding, C., Liebman, M. and Leandro, L.F. (2020) Exploring the Potential of
        High-Resolution Satellite Imagery for the Detection of Soybean Sudden Death Syndrome.
        Remote Sensing, 12, 1213. Available at: http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/rs12071213.

     R Core Team (2022) R: A Language and Environment for Statistical Computing. Available at:
        https://www.R-project.org/.

     Ronneberger, O., Fischer, P. and Brox, T. (2015) U-Net: Convolutional Networks for
        Biomedical Image Segmentation. arXiv [cs.CV]. Available at:
        http://arxiv.org/abs/1505.04597.

     Rößle, D., Prey, L., Ramgraber, L., Hanemann, A., Cremers, D., Noack, P.O. and Schön, T.
        (2023) Efficient Noninvasive FHB Estimation using RGB Images from a Novel Multiyear,
        Multirater Dataset. Plant Phenomics, 5, 0068. Available at:
        http://dx.doi.org/10.34133/plantphenomics.0068.

     RStudio Team (2020) RStudio: Integrated Development Environment for R. Available at:
        http://www.rstudio.com/.

     Sandino, J., Pegg, G., Gonzalez, F. and Smith, G. (2018) Aerial Mapping of Forests Affected
        by Pathogens Using UAVs, Hyperspectral Sensors, and Artificial Intelligence. Sensors , 18.
        Available at: http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/s18040944.

     Savary, S., Willocquet, L., Pethybridge, S.J., Esker, P., McRoberts, N. and Nelson, A.
        (2019) The global burden of pathogens and pests on major food crops. Nat Ecol Evol, 3,
        430–439. Available at: http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41559-018-0793-y.
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     Serajazari, M., Torkamaneh, D., Gordon, E., Lee, E., Booker, H., Pauls, K.P. and Navabi, A.
         (2023) Identification of fusarium head blight resistance markers in a genome-wide
         association study of CIMMYT spring synthetic hexaploid derived wheat lines. BMC Plant
         Biol., 23, 290. Available at: http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s12870-023-04306-8.

     Shah, D.A., Molineros, J.E., Paul, P.A., Willyerd, K.T., Madden, L.V. and De Wolf, E.D.
        (2013) Predicting fusarium head blight epidemics with weather-driven pre- and post-
        anthesis logistic regression models. Phytopathology, 103, 906–919. Available at:
        http://dx.doi.org/10.1094/PHYTO-11-12-0304-R.

     Siou, D., Gélisse, S., Laval, V., Repinçay, C., Canalès, R., Suffert, F. and Lannou, C. (2014)
         Effect of wheat spike infection timing on fusarium head blight development and mycotoxin
         accumulation. Plant Pathol., 63, 390–399. Available at:
         https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ppa.12106.

     Stack, R.W. and McMullen, M.P. (1998) A visual scale to estimate severity of Fusarium head
         blight in wheat. Available at: https://library.ndsu.edu/ir/handle/10365/9187 [Accessed
         September 8, 2023].

     Sun, S., Li, C. and Paterson, A.H. (2017) In-Field High-Throughput Phenotyping of Cotton
        Plant Height Using LiDAR. Remote Sensing, 9, 377. Available at:
        https://www.mdpi.com/2072-4292/9/4/377 [Accessed September 8, 2023].

     Su, W.-H., Zhang, J., Yang, C., Page, R., Szinyei, T., Hirsch, C.D. and Steffenson, B.J.
         (2020) Automatic Evaluation of Wheat Resistance to Fusarium Head Blight Using Dual
         Mask-RCNN Deep Learning Frameworks in Computer Vision. Remote Sensing, 13, 26.
         Available at: https://www.mdpi.com/2072-4292/13/1/26 [Accessed August 16, 2023].

     Sweet, D.D., Tirado, S.B., Springer, N.M., Hirsch, C.N. and Hirsch, C.D. (2022) Opportunities
        and challenges in phenotyping row crops using drone-based RGB imaging. The Plant
        Phenome Journal, 5. Available at: http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ppj2.20044.

     Talas, F., Würschum, T., Reif, J.C., Parzies, H.K. and Miedaner, T. (2012) Association of
         single nucleotide polymorphic sites in candidate genes with aggressiveness and
         deoxynivalenol production in Fusarium graminearum causing wheat head blight. BMC
         Genet., 13, 14. Available at: http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1471-2156-13-14.

     Tanger, P., Klassen, S., Mojica, J.P., et al. (2017) Field-based high throughput phenotyping
        rapidly identifies genomic regions controlling yield components in rice. Sci. Rep., 7, 1–8.
        Available at: https://www.nature.com/articles/srep42839 [Accessed February 20, 2023].

     Torres, A.M., Palacios, S.A., Yerkovich, N., Palazzini, J.M., Battilani, P., Leslie, J.F.,
         Logrieco, A.F. and Chulze, S.N. (2019) Fusarium head blight and mycotoxins in wheat:
         prevention and control strategies across the food chain. World Mycotoxin J., 12, 333–355.
         Available at: https://doi.org/10.3920/WMJ2019.2438.

     Wickham, H. (2016) ggplot2: Elegant Graphics for Data Analysis. Available at:
        https://ggplot2.tidyverse.org.

     Wickham, H., Averick, M., Bryan, J., et al. (2019) Welcome to the tidyverse. Journal of Open
        Source Software, 4, 1686. Available at: http://dx.doi.org/10.21105/joss.01686.
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     Table Captions
     Table 1. Plot level FHB correlations and intraclass correlation (ICC) between the
     average disease level from the five in-field visual raters, the plot average disease
     level from imaged spikes manually annotated in the large scale annotation image
     dataset, and the plot average disease level based on all the spike images
     automatically annotated by the developed FHB pipeline.

     Table 2. Single spike image FHB correlations and intraclass correlation (ICC)
     between the 200 image inter-rater reliability image dataset, the large scale manual
     image annotation dataset, and the automatic image annotation of FHB on spike
     images by the FHB image analysis pipeline.


     Figure Captions


     Figure 1. Overview of the FHB image analysis pipeline, associated model
     architecture, and comparisons used for model validation. The pipeline was made
     up of four models. The grain spike detection model identified wheat spikes in complex
     field images. The spike and disease segmentation models segment entire unobscured
     wheat spikes and the portions exhibiting FHB symptoms, respectively. Disease severity
     was quantified as the region of intersection between the segmented spike and disease.
     The spike gradeability model was used to assess image.


     Figure 2. FHB severity, disease scoring duration, and rater agreement for manual
     field ratings conducted at Crookston (Crk) and Saint Paul (StP) in 2022. a.
     Distribution of plot level disease severity scores from each rater for Crk on July 28 and
     StP on July 18. The mean disease severity for each location is shown by the red
     dashed line. b. The relationship between rater experience and rating duration. The
     regression line between experience and time is shown in blue. The dashed black line is
     the average imaging time for the phenotyping rover for all the plots. c. Pairwise Pearson
     correlation coefficients and intraclass correlation (ICC) values between rater in-field
     disease scores.
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     Figure 3. Manual image annotations (MIA) of FHB severity correlations between
     raters and in-field FHB ratings. a. Relationship between the manual in-field rating
     (MFR) of FHB plot average of all five raters and the plot average of FHB percent of
     spikes from the large scale manual image annotation (MIA) dataset. The black line
     indicates a one to one relationship. The regression line between the manual image
     annotation and manual in-field rating averages per plot is shown in blue. The Pearson
     correlation coefficient of this comparison is 0.74. b. Repeated images of the same
     representative image from the 200 inter-rater reliability annotation dataset. The image
     was selected to represent the average coefficient of variation of the inter-rater reliability
     image annotation set. The mask of the spike segmentation is shown in purple and the
     FHB disease annotations on the spike by each of the five raters is shown in red. The
     level of FHB severity annotated by each rater is also shown. c. Pairwise Pearson
     correlation coefficients and intraclass correlation (ICC) between raters for the 200 inter-
     rater reliability annotation dataset.


     Figure 4. The output and validation of the automatic image analysis pipeline
     results. a. The effect of the gradability model threshold on the number of retained
     spikes and the correlation to manual in-field ratings (MFR) and the large scale manual
     image annotation (MIA) plot averages. b. The automatic image analysis (AIA), which is
     model output from all spikes in all images, plot averages plotted against the manual in-
     field ratings (MFR) and the large scale manual image annotation (MIA) plot averages.
     The regression lines for each plot are shown in blue. c. Pairwise Pearson correlation
     coefficients and intraclass correlation (ICC) between raters and the automatic image
     analysis pipeline for the 200 inter-rater reliability image dataset. d. A representative
     example of model spike detection, large scale manual image annotation FHB
     percentage, and automatic image analysis pipeline inference results. The gradable
     spikes are shown with red bounding boxes and the black bounding boxes marked the
     ungradable spikes. The color of the filled boxes shows the FHB percentage for the
     gradable spikes calculated by each method.
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     Figure S1. Diagram of Mineral phenotyping rover and 2021 and 2022 camera
     configurations. a. Front, side, and top view of the Mineral Earth Sciences LLC.
     phenotyping rover. b. Rover camera configurations for 2021. Images used for model
     building were from cameras C, D, G, H, I, and J. c. Rover camera configurations for
     2022. Images for model assessment were taken with camera C and D. d. Example
     image from 2021 taken with side camera C. e. Example image from 2022 taken with
     elevated top-down angled camera D.


     Figure S2. Example plot registration and sampled images for processing in 2022
     StP. A subset of 8 total images, 4 images per camera C and D, with even GPS spacing
     was selected per plot.


     Figure S3. The distribution of percent of FHB per spike for each rater for the large
     scale manual image annotation dataset. The average FHB percent of the spikes
     annotated is shown in red for each rater.


     Figure S4. The distribution of plot aggregate percent of FHB each rater for the
     large scale manual image annotation dataset. The average FHB percent of the
     spikes annotated is shown in red for each rater.


     Figure S5. Theoretical and observed disease distributions of the manual inter-
     rater reliability image annotation spike subset.


     Figure S6. Output of the automatic image analysis pipeline for spike disease and
     gradability inferences. a. The distribution of gradability probabilities before filtering at a
     0.50 threshold. B. The distribution of disease at each location before filtering at a 0.50
     gradability threshold. c. The distribution of gradability probabilities after filtering at a 0.50
     threshold d. The distribution of FHB disease percentage at each location after filtering at
     0.50 gradability threshold.
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     Figure S7. The relationship between the automatic image analysis (AIA) pipeline
     and rater disease annotations for large scale manual image annotation (MIA)
     dataset of spikes. The regression line between AIA and MIA spike FHB percentage is
     shown in blue.


     Figure S8. Representative examples of images from StP and Crk taken in 2022.
     The original image is shown in the left column of each image pair. On the right column
     of each image pair, the mask of the spike segmentation model is shown in purple, the
     mask of the disease segmentation model is overlaid in red, and the calculated
     percentage of FHB detected for the spike is indicated above the image.
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     Table 1. Plot level FHB correlations and intraclass correlation (ICC) between the average
     disease level from the five in-field visual raters, the plot average disease level from
     imaged spikes manually annotated in the large scale annotation image dataset, and the
     plot average disease level based on all the spike images automatically annotated by the
     developed FHB pipeline.
                                                                                                     Large Scale Manual
                                                               Manual Field Rating
                                                                                                      Image Annotation


                                                                     ICC = 0.66
       Manual Field Rating                                                                                   r = 0.74
                                                                    r = 0.43-0.87



       Automatic Image Annotation                                       r = 0.85                             r = 0.75
bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.09.20.558703; this version posted September 21, 2023. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
                                            available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.




     Table 2. Single spike image FHB correlations and intraclass correlation (ICC)
     between the 200 image inter-rater reliability image dataset, the large scale manual
     image annotation dataset, and the automatic image annotation of FHB on spike
     images by the FHB image analysis pipeline.
                                                          Inter-Rater Reliability                      Automatic Image
                                                        Annotations (200 images)                      Annotation (model)


           Inter-Rater Reliability                                ICC = 0.79                                ICC = 0.75
         Annotations (200 images)                                r = 0.67-0.92                             r = 0.63-0.83


        Large Scale Manual Image
                                                                        N/A                                   r = 0.70
               Annotation
Input Images      Grain Spike Detection          Spike Gradability

                                              Gradable?

                                                                                                     …




                                                                        Segmented Images
                                               Skip                                                            FHB % =
                                                                                                               Region of
                                                                                                                                    Aggregate to
                                                           No    Yes                                           intersect




                                                                                              ...
                                                                                                                                     plot-level




                                                                                                         ...
                                                                                                               between
                                                                                                                                      disease
    ...




                                                  Architecture:                                                spike and
                                                  ResNet101x3                                                  disease
                                                                                                     …
                                                Remove low quality                                             mask
                                                    images
               Architecture: CenterNet
                Detect wheat spikes
                (red) and distinguish           Spike Segmentation
                  from weeds (blue)


                                                                                                    Individual spike
                                                                                                    disease severity

                                    …
               Spike Images




                                                 Architecture: U-Net                                                       Compare plot
                                                 Mask grain head of                                                          average
                              ...


                                        ...




                                                single detected spike                                                        disease
                                                                                            Compare
                                               Disease Segmentation                          disease
                                    …
                                                                                           annotations




                                                 Architecture: U-Net                        Manual image annotation              Manual field ratings
                                               Disease mask of single
                                                   detected spike




Figure 1. Overview of the FHB image analysis pipeline, associated model architecture, and
comparisons used for model validation. The pipeline was made up of four models. The grain spike
detection model identified wheat spikes in complex field images. The spike and disease segmentation
models segment entire unobscured wheat spikes and the portions exhibiting FHB symptoms, respectively.
Disease severity was quantified as the region of intersection between the segmented spike and disease.
The spike gradability model was used to assess image quality before plot level disease aggregation. The
pipeline was validated by 1) comparing the percentage of disease on individual spike images with manual
image annotations done by raters, 2) comparing a plot aggregate disease score based on gradable spikes
annotated by the pipeline with plot aggregate of large scale manual annotation of spike images by humans,
and 3) comparing a plot aggregate disease score based on gradable spikes annotated by the pipeline with
manual field rating plot disease scores.
Figure 2. FHB severity, disease scoring
duration, and rater agreement for manual field
ratings conducted at Crookston (Crk) and Saint
Paul (StP) in 2022. a. Distribution of plot level
disease severity scores from each rater for Crk on
July 28 and StP on July 18. The mean disease
severity for each location is shown by the red
dashed line. b. The relationship between rater
experience and rating duration. The regression line
between experience and time is shown in blue. The
dashed black line is the average imaging time for
the phenotyping rover for all the plots. c. Pairwise
Pearson correlation coefficients and intraclass
correlation (ICC) values between rater in-field
disease scores.
a   b
        Figure 3. Manual image annotations (MIA) of
        FHB severity correlations between raters and
        in-field FHB ratings. a. Relationship between the
        manual in-field rating (MFR) of FHB plot average of
        all five raters and the plot average of FHB percent
        of spikes from the large scale manual image
        annotation (MIA) dataset. The black line indicates a
        one to one relationship. The regression line
        between the manual image annotation and manual
        in-field rating averages per plot is shown in blue.
c       The Pearson correlation coefficient of this
        comparison is 0.74. b. Repeated images of the
        same representative image from the 200 inter-rater
        reliability annotation dataset. The image was
        selected to represent the average coefficient of
        variation of the inter-rater reliability image
        annotation set. The mask of the spike
        segmentation is shown in purple and the FHB
        disease annotations on the spike by each of the
        five raters is shown in red. The level of FHB
        severity annotated by each rater is also shown. c.
        Pairwise Pearson correlation coefficients and
        intraclass correlation (ICC) between raters for the
        200 inter-rater reliability annotation dataset.
a                                                                 b




c                           d   Spike Detection and Gradability       MIA Spike FHB Severity   AIA Spike FHB Severity




    Figure 4. The output and validation of the automatic image analysis pipeline results. a. The effect of
    the gradability model threshold on the number of retained spikes and the correlation to manual in-field
    ratings (MFR) and the large scale manual image annotation (MIA) plot averages. b. The automatic image
    analysis (AIA), which is model output from all spikes in all images, plot averages plotted against the manual
    in-field ratings (MFR) and the large scale manual image annotation (MIA) plot averages. The regression
    lines for each plot are shown in blue. c. Pairwise Pearson correlation coefficients and intraclass correlation
    (ICC) between raters and the automatic image analysis pipeline for the 200 inter-rater reliability image
    dataset. d. A representative example of model spike detection, large scale manual image annotation FHB
    percentage, and automatic image analysis pipeline inference results. The gradable spikes are shown with
    red bounding boxes and the black bounding boxes marked the ungradable spikes. The color of the filled
    boxes shows the FHB percentage for the gradable spikes calculated by each method.
