Article
Field-Level Classification of Winter Catch Crops Using
Sentinel-2 Time Series: Model Comparison and Transferability
Kato Vanpoucke 1,2, *, Stien Heremans 1,2 , Emily Buls 3 and Ben Somers 2,4

                                         1   Research Institute for Nature and Forest (INBO), Havenlaan 88, 1000 Brussels, Belgium
                                         2   Division of Forest, Nature and Landscape (FNL), Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences,
                                             KU Leuven, Celestijnenlaan 200E, 3001 Leuven, Belgium
                                         3   Vlaamse Landmaatschappij (VLM), Koning Albert II-laan 15, 1210 Brussels, Belgium
                                         4   KU Leuven Plant Institute (LPI), Kasteelpark Arenberg 31, 3001 Leuven, Belgium
                                         *   Correspondence: kato.vanpoucke@inbo.be


                                         Abstract: Winter catch crops are promoted in the European Union under the Common Agricultural
                                         Policy to improve soil health and reduce nitrate leaching from agricultural fields. Currently, Member
                                         States often monitor farmers’ adoption through on-site inspections for a limited subset of parcels.
                                         Because of its potential for region-wide coverage, this study investigates the potential of Sentinel-2
                                         satellite time series to classify catch crops at the field level in Flanders (Belgium). The first objective
                                         was to classify catch crops and identify the optimal model and time series input for this task. The
                                         second objective was to apply these findings in a real-world scenario, aiming to provide reliable
                                         early-season predictions in a separate target year, testing early-season performance and temporal
                                         transferability. The following three models were compared: Random Forest (RF), Time Series Forest
                                         (TSF), and a One-Dimensional Convolutional Neural Network (1D-CNN). The results showed that,
                                         with a limited field-based training dataset, RF produced the most robust results across different time
                                         series inputs, achieving a median F1-score of >88% on the best dataset. Additionally, the early-season
                                         performance of the models was delayed in the target year, reaching the F1-score threshold of 85%
                                         at least one month later in the season compared to the training years, with large timing differences
                                         between the models.

Citation: Vanpoucke, K.; Heremans,
                                         Keywords: catch crop; early classification; temporal transferability; machine learning; satellite image
S.; Buls, E.; Somers, B. Field-Level
Classification of Winter Catch Crops
                                         time series; Sentinel-2
Using Sentinel-2 Time Series: Model
Comparison and Transferability.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620.
https://doi.org/10.3390/rs16244620       1. Introduction
                                              When mineral nitrogen remains in the soil after harvest of the main crop, nitrate
Academic Editors: David M Johnson
and Annamaria Castrignanò
                                         leaching can lead to elevated nitrate levels in surface and groundwater, adversely affecting
                                         the environment and human health [1]. For this reason, the Nitrates Directive in the
Received: 14 October 2024                European Union aims to reduce water pollution from agricultural sources (91/676/EEC)
Revised: 22 November 2024                and thereby requires Member States to monitor their water quality and implement good
Accepted: 8 December 2024                agricultural practices. An example of such practice is the cultivation of catch crops, which
Published: 10 December 2024
                                         are also supported by the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) in the context of soil health
                                         and are often referred to as cover crops in this context [2]. Catch crops are grown from late
                                         summer to early spring, bridging the gap between main cropping seasons [3], with the goal
Copyright: © 2024 by the authors.
                                         of reducing nitrate leaching. Replacing fallow with catch crops reduces nitrate leaching
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.       through multiple mechanisms, including active uptake of both nitrogen and water [4,5].
This article is an open access article   Their effectiveness is influenced by factors such as (i) biomass, (ii) species, and (iii) sowing
distributed under the terms and          and termination dates, with a recent meta-analysis showing an average reduction in nitrate
conditions of the Creative Commons       leaching by 68% [4,5].
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://         Monitoring the adoption of catch crops by farmers currently relies on on-site field visits
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/         by authorities [3]. Field visits are, however, very labor- and time-consuming, and therefore,
4.0/).                                   only a small fraction of all fields can be visited. To get a more complete overview of the



Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620. https://doi.org/10.3390/rs16244620                                      https://www.mdpi.com/journal/remotesensing
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                            2 of 26



                              extent to which catch crops are adopted across a region, satellite remote sensing can be
                              used to map catch crop presence and prioritize field visits to areas of higher uncertainty [3].
                              Satellite remote sensing offers large-scale coverage and high spatio-temporal resolution and
                              has already been successfully used in crop monitoring and policy support for the CAP [6].
                                    Catch crop monitoring with remote sensing has not yet been researched extensively,
                              but the field has recently been growing due to the mainstreaming of these cropping prac-
                              tices combined with the recent rise in the availability of satellite data with sufficiently
                              high spatial, spectral, and temporal resolution [7]. As outlined by [8], past studies have
                              focused on three main aspects of catch crops: (a) their presence [3], (b) their emergence
                              and termination date [9], and (c) their biomass [8,10,11]. These studies applied a wide
                              range of methods, including phenology through optical satellite time series, to monitor
                              catch crops [3,12,13]. The use of phenological profiles can help differentiate catch crops
                              from other crops and vegetation because the spectral differences between vegetation types
                              may be small at any single moment in time, while differences in timing may be more
                              pronounced [14]. Especially for crop type classification, the different growth patterns and
                              differences in the timing of the growth stages can be used as discriminating features [15,16].
                              Distinguishing between catch crop types can help estimate their effect on N-leaching, as
                              different types have different nitrogen uptake capacities. Both the type of catch crop and
                              its biomass accumulation influence the amount of nitrogen retained, making catch crop
                              type an important variable to consider when modeling N-uptake by catch crops across a
                              region [11].
                                    Simultaneously, with the increased focus on time series data, data-driven machine
                              learning models have become prominent in (catch) crop monitoring [3,17,18]. For example,
                              for the classification of catch crops, ref. [3] used satellite time series and Random Forest
                              (RF), a model that is also popular in main crop classification [18,19]. Some advantages
                              of RFs are their easy-to-tune parameters and their robustness to overfitting [17,20,21].
                              However, RFs do not explicitly take into account the temporal dependencies between the
                              observations, as they handle each time step as an independent variable. This drawback
                              has been overcome by the introduction of a new branch of RFs specifically designed for
                              time series classification and prediction. Time Series Forest (TSF) is an example of such
                              an RF where temporal features—mean, standard deviation, and slope—are calculated
                              over predefined (randomly chosen) temporal intervals, and these deduced features are
                              subsequently used for classification [22]. The model, therefore, incorporates crop phenology
                              by explicitly using the temporal dimension.
                                    Over the last few years, deep learning algorithms have also appeared in crop monitor-
                              ing research [15,23]. Different kinds of deep learning architectures have been compared
                              for the task of crop classification, such as RNNs, MS-ResNet, and TempCNN [23]. Notably,
                              TempCNN was introduced by [17], exploring the use of One-Dimensional CNNs (1D-CNN)
                              for time series-based crop type classification, a lightweight model compared to other deep
                              learning architectures. The use of deep neural networks comes with two major challenges:
                              (1) the expertise required for optimizing both the model architecture and the hyperparame-
                              ter values, shifting the difficulty from feature engineering to architecture engineering, and
                              (2) the large number of parameters that have to be estimated, which makes deep learning
                              methods prone to overfitting and thus reliant on a large set of labeled training data [17].
                                    Even though deep learning models have shown promising results in main crop type
                              mapping, catch crop monitoring has predominantly relied on machine learning models
                              to date [3,24,25]. However, for catch crop mapping, the use of a Multilayer Perceptron
                              network (MLP) has demonstrated improvements over the use of machine learning meth-
                              ods [26]. To our knowledge, this study is one of the few to compare traditional machine
                              learning with deep learning methods for the end-of-season classification of catch crops
                              while using optical time series input data. In contrast with traditional machine learning
                              algorithms, deep learning models can learn feature representations from raw input (time
                              series) without feature engineering [15,23,27], but in real-world applications with limited
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                               3 of 26



                              training samples, optimizing the input dataset in both the time and spectral dimensions
                              may still be necessary [14].
                                    Moreover, deep learning models have shown promising results in early-season clas-
                              sification [19], which is useful when applying the models in the operational scenario of
                              guiding in-season fieldwork to areas where the catch crop presence is most uncertain. In
                              this application, the models also need to be generalizable in time, i.e., transferable between
                              years. However, as most crop classification studies use training and testing data from
                              the same year, the generalizability of models across years has not been well studied [28].
                              The temporal generalization of models, also named temporal transferability, is a crucial
                              aspect of early-season classification in an operational setting when only training labels
                              from previous years are available [29]. Specifically in the context of early-season mapping,
                              this topic has received increasing attention recently [19,28–31].
                                    The main objective of this paper is to test the potential of different machine learning
                              and deep learning methods that differ in the way they handle the temporal dimension of
                              the data for classifying catch crops from a time series of medium-resolution satellite images.
                              We will also assess the impact of (1) the temporal resolution of the input time series and (2)
                              the spectral resolution of the input features in order to further optimize the performance of
                              the classification models. In the second objective, the optimized models are applied in a
                              real-world scenario, where we aim to test the potential of these models for early-season
                              catch crop classification. In this case, the target year is different from the training year(s), so
                              this is an assessment of temporal model transferability. These research objectives give rise
                              to four research questions:
                              (1)   What is the (relative) accuracy of different machine learning and deep learning classi-
                                    fiers for winter crop classification from optical satellite time series?
                              (2)   To what extent do the temporal and spectral resolution of the input data affect the
                                    models’ classification accuracy?
                              (3)   How early in the season can the presence of catch crops reliably be detected to help
                                    prioritize field visits in areas of higher uncertainty?
                              (4)   How well do the trained models maintain their accuracy when applied to a target
                                    year not included in the training dataset?

                              2. Materials and Methods
                                   This section will first describe the data that were used, then the models and their
                              training process, and lastly, the experimental setup. An overview of the workflow is given
                              in Figure 1.

                              2.1. Study Area
                                    The study area covers the region of Flanders, which is located in the North of Belgium
                              and is characterized by a temperate climate with warm summers and the absence of a dry
                              season according to the Köppen–Geiger classification (Figure 2) [32]. Agriculture covers a
                              total of 45% of the region’s total land area, of which 55% is used for fodder production and
                              35% for arable farming [33]. In Flanders, the cultivation of catch crops in winter has been
                              introduced as a measure to decrease nitrate leaching from agricultural fields. Reference data
                              for modeling was collected throughout the region, with a focus on the municipalities with
                              the highest nitrogen concentrations in their surface and groundwater. These municipalities
                              are spread over Flanders and are located in the main agricultural clusters of the region.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                       4 of 27
  Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                                               4 of 26




                                      Figure1.
                                     Figure      Highlights of
                                              1. Highlights    of the appliedworkflow.
                                                                                workflow.Three
                                                                  the applied                 Threeexperiments
                                                                                                      experiments were
                                                                                                                    were conducted:
                                                                                                                           conducted:           andand
                                                                                                                                         firstfirst
                                                                                                                                     TheThe
                                      secondexperiments
                                     second
 Remote Sens. 2024, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW                     aimed to
                                               experiments aimed      tostudy   theinfluence
                                                                         study the  influence of    temporal resolution
                                                                                                of temporal    resolution and         features
                                                                                                                                input features
                                                                                                                           and input      5 of 27on the
                                     classification, respectively
                                      the classification,            on the
                                                           respectively  onclassification.  The third
                                                                             the classification.         experiment
                                                                                                 The third            evaluated
                                                                                                              experiment          the models’
                                                                                                                           evaluated            perfor-
                                                                                                                                      the models’
                                     mance   early inearly
                                      performance           winter
                                                       the in       season
                                                              the winter    and their
                                                                          season       temporal
                                                                                  and their       transferability.
                                                                                             temporal   transferability.

                                     2.1. Study Area
                                          The study area covers the region of Flanders, which is located in the North of Belgium
                                     and is characterized by a temperate climate with warm summers and the absence of a dry
                                     season according to the Köppen–Geiger classification (Figure 2) [32]. Agriculture covers a
                                     total of 45% of the region’s total land area, of which 55% is used for fodder production
                                     and 35% for arable farming [33]. In Flanders, the cultivation of catch crops in winter has
                                     been introduced as a measure to decrease nitrate leaching from agricultural fields. Refer-
                                     ence data for modeling was collected throughout the region, with a focus on the munici-
                                     palities with the highest nitrogen concentrations in their surface and groundwater. These
                                     municipalities are spread over Flanders and are located in the main agricultural clusters
                                     of the region.
                                    Figure      Thelocation
                                     Figure2.2.The           of the
                                                    location of  thestudy   region
                                                                     studyregion in in Europe;
                                                                                    Europe;    Flanders
                                                                                            Flanders      is colored
                                                                                                     is colored       in cyan.
                                                                                                                in cyan.       Administrative
                                                                                                                         Administrative borders:
                                    borders:
                                     EuropeanEuropean    Environment
                                                Environment             Agency (www.eea.europa.eu/datahub
                                                               Agency (www.eea.europa.eu/datahub        (accessed (accessed  on 22 November
                                                                                                                   on 22 November  2024)).
                                    2024)).

                                    2.2. Data
                                    2.2.1. Reference Data
                                          Field observations (2016–2021) were used as ground truth labels and were gathered
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                             5 of 26



                              2.2. Data
                              2.2.1. Reference Data
                                   Field observations (2016–2021) were used as ground truth labels and were gathered by
                              the Agency for Agriculture and Fisheries in the context of monitoring farmers’ compliance
                              and, more broadly, EU greening measures. Because this dataset was collected in a broader
                              context, it contained unnecessary observations and, therefore, needed preprocessing, which
                              is described in Appendix A. The ground truth labels obtained for this dataset consisted of
                              the (catch) crop species present on a field during the winter period, from approximately
                              October to January.
                                   In addition to this dataset, extra field observations were collected during two dedicated
                              field campaigns in collaboration with the Flemish Land Agency (VLM), the government
                              agency responsible for monitoring farmers’ compliance with the catch crop regulation.
                              The two field campaigns were carried out in the winter seasons (October to January)
                              of 2021 (i.e., winter 2021–2022) and 2022 (i.e., winter 2022–2023) and were focused on
                              clusters of municipalities with the lowest water quality, which, due to regulations, had
                              a high presence of catch crops. Data from the first field campaign were added to the
                              training dataset, while those from the second field campaign were added to an independent
                              validation set used for testing the temporal transferability of the trained models. Between
                              field campaigns, the field selection process differed slightly. In the first field campaign
                              (winter 2021–2022), fields were selected based on an annual farmer survey and a stratified
                              random sample proportional to the declared catch crops, ensuring an even distribution
                              across all municipalities. The second field campaign (winter 2022–2023) comprised two
                              subsets: (i) fields selected based on label occurrence in the training dataset with priority for
                              underrepresented labels (minority classes), and (ii) fields visited by a government agency
                              targeting fields with previous absence of catch crops. In total, the dataset consisted of 6881
                              fields, of which 5921 fields were visited in observation years ranging from 2016 to 2021 (i.e.,
                              winter 2016–2017, 2017–2018, etc.). These observations comprise both the data collected
                              by the Agency for Agriculture and Fisheries and the data collected during the first field
                              campaign. These observations were used for training and testing the models. An additional
                              970 fields were observed during the second field campaign in 2022 (i.e., winter 2022–2023),
                              which were used as the independent validation set (Figure 3).

                              2.2.2. Classification Groups
                                    Because of the similarity in temporal profiles of (catch) crop species [3], species with
                              similar spectral and temporal characteristics were grouped together. The catch crop species
                              are listed in Table 1, and other crops cultivated during winter are referred to as winter crops.
                              The catch crop species were subdivided into three groups based on their plant morphology
                              and phenology (Table 1) [34,35]. The first group consists of leafy plant species; two example
                              species in this group are white mustard and phacelia. This group is characterized by broad
                              leaves and high aboveground biomass, properties that cause a high nitrogen uptake [34].
                              Plants in this group are very sensitive to frost damage and often do not survive winter.
                              The second group consists of grass-like species with more narrow and upright leaves; two
                              commonly used species are grass and oats (Table 1) [34,35]. As opposed to the first group,
                              grass-like crops are winter-hardy and have a slower nitrogen uptake throughout the season.
                              Their aboveground growth is slower, but their root system is extensive, which contributes
                              to reduced soil slaking and an increased build-up of soil organic carbon. Mixtures of any of
                              the allowed species can be considered as a third group, where mixtures can either consist
                              of only leafy species, only grass-like species, or a combination of species from both groups.
Remote Sens. 2024,
    Remote         16, x FOR
             Sens. 2024,      PEER REVIEW
                         16, 4620                                                                                                        6 of 276 of 26




                                                             (A) Location field observations colored by year




                                                        (B) Location field observations and agricultural land use
                                  Figure  3. Locations
                                        Figure  3. Locations  of6881
                                                         of the  the 6881    observations
                                                                      fieldfield           in the
                                                                                  observations     study
                                                                                               in the    area:
                                                                                                      study     (A)(A)
                                                                                                                    colored
                                                                                                             area:           byby
                                                                                                                       colored  year  of of
                                                                                                                                   year  observa-
                                                                                                                                            observation
                                  tion where
                                        where the
                                               the color
                                                    color indicates  the year
                                                          indicates the         in which
                                                                                   which the
                                                                          year in             winteryear
                                                                                                       yearstarted
                                                                                          the winter                (e.g.,2022
                                                                                                            started(e.g.,  2022are
                                                                                                                                areobservations
                                                                                                                                    observationsin the
                                         winteryear
                                  in thewinter   year2022–2023)
                                                       2022–2023)andand(B)
                                                                         (B)the
                                                                              thefield  observationslocated
                                                                                  fieldobservations   locatedononan
                                                                                                                  anagricultural
                                                                                                                     agriculturalland
                                                                                                                                   landuse
                                                                                                                                         usemap.
                                                                                                                                             map.Land
                                  Land use: Department of Environment and Spatial Development (www.vlaan-
                                        use: Department of Environment and Spatial Development (www.vlaanderen.be/datavindplaats
                                  deren.be/datavindplaats (accessed on 22 November 2024)).
                                        (accessed on 22 November 2024)).
                                  2.2.2. Classification Groups
                                            The non-catch  crop winter crop species were also grouped into three groups: (1) legumes,
                                           winterofcereals,
                                        Because
                                       (2)           the similarity
                                                             and (3) inother  winterprofiles
                                                                          temporal                         crop
                                                                                                of (catch)are
                                                                                      crops. Legumes             species
                                                                                                                    as an[3],
                                                                                                              used              species with
                                                                                                                            agricultural   practice
                                  similar  spectralsoil
                                       to increase   andnitrogen
                                                          temporal  and,   therefore, arewere
                                                                       characteristics          grouped
                                                                                           not used   as a catch cropThe
                                                                                                           together.    [34].catch  crop spe-
                                                                                                                              The winter     cereals,
                                  cies are listed
                                       winter     in Table
                                                barley       1, and vulgare
                                                        (Hordeum     other crops        winter during
                                                                                    cultivated
                                                                               L.) and                   winter are
                                                                                                 wheat (Triticum   aestivum      to as
                                                                                                                      referredL.),     winter
                                                                                                                                    were   put into
                                  crops. The catchgroup
                                       a separate           becausewere
                                                      crop species          subdivided
                                                                       farmers    can useinto
                                                                                           thesethree
                                                                                                   crops  as anbased
                                                                                                       groups           on their
                                                                                                                ‘equivalent       plant mor-
                                                                                                                                measure’    instead
                                  phology    and phenology
                                       of sowing    catch crops. (Table
                                                                    The 1)   [34,35]. The
                                                                          difference   withfirst group
                                                                                             sowing      consists
                                                                                                       catch             that plant
                                                                                                              cropsofisleafy          species;
                                                                                                                               the winter    cereals
                                  two example     species  in  this group    are  white  mustard    and  phacelia.  This   group
                                       sown in the current year remain on the field as the main crop in the following year, so theyis charac-
                                       areby
                                  terized   notbroad
                                                removedleaves
                                                            fromandthe
                                                                     high   aboveground
                                                                        field                biomass,
                                                                               after the required       properties
                                                                                                     period,  as is the    cause
                                                                                                                     thatcase          catchni-
                                                                                                                                   a high
                                                                                                                                with          crops.
                                       Examples
                                  trogen   uptake [34].            group,
                                                            third in
                                                    of thePlants             other are
                                                                      this group         verycrops,
                                                                                    winter           are cash
                                                                                               sensitive       crops
                                                                                                          to frost     sown and
                                                                                                                   damage       during   thedo
                                                                                                                                     often    study
                                       period, winter.
                                  not survive   for example,     leek (Allium
                                                         The second     group ampeloprasum
                                                                                 consists of grass-like   spinachwith
                                                                                                 L.) and species   (Spinacia
                                                                                                                          moreoleracea
                                                                                                                                 narrowL.).
                                                                                                                                          and
                                  upright leaves; two commonly used species are grass and oats (Table 1) [34,35]. As op-
                                  posed to the first group, grass-like crops are winter-hardy and have a slower nitrogen
                                  uptake throughout the season. Their aboveground growth is slower, but their root system
                                  is extensive, which contributes to reduced soil slaking and an increased build-up of soil
                                  organic carbon. Mixtures of any of the allowed species can be considered as a third group,
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                               7 of 26



                               Table 1. Overview of all allowed catch crop species with their common name, scientific name [36],
                               and group.

                Common Name                               Scientific Name                      Classification Group
 Bristle oat                                Avena strigosa                                          Grass group
 Festulolium                                Lolium × Festuca spp.                                   Grass group
 Grasses                                    e.g.,
     Grass herbs                            Lolium multiflorum
                                            Lolium multiflorum var. westerwoldicum                  Grass group
     Grass sods
     Undersowing grass
 Oat (spring)                               Avena sativa                                            Grass group
 Oat (winter)                               Avena sativa                                            Grass group
 Rye                                        Secale cereale                                          Grass group
 Sudan grass                                Sorghum × drummondii                                    Grass group
 English ryegrass and white clover          Trifolium repens + Lolium perenne                       Grass group
 Arugula                                    Eruca vesicaria subsp. Sativa                           Leafy group
 Buckwheat                                  Fagopyrum esculentum                                    Leafy group
                                            Brassica oleracea convar.
 Cow cabbage                                                                                        Leafy group
                                            acephala
 Leaf mustard                               Brassica juncea                                         Leafy group
 Phacelia                                   Phacelia tanacetifolia                                  Leafy group
 White mustard                              Sinapis alba                                            Leafy group
 Borage                                     Borago officinalis                                     Leafy group 1
 Nyger                                      Guizotia abyssinica                                    Leafy group 1
 Oil radish                                 Raphanus sativus supsp. Oleiferus                      Leafy group 1
 Oilseed turnip                             Brassica rapa subsp. oleifera                          Leafy group 1
 Tagetes                                    Tagetes spp.                                           Leafy group 1
 Mixtures of non-legume cover species                                                                Mixtures
                               1 Interpretation based on plant morphology.



                                     To classify these six different groups, the approach of a classification hierarchy was
                               taken, dividing the complex classification problem into progressive classifications for
                               improved accuracy in the case of complex classes with a lot of intra-class variability [37–39].
                               A limited two-level hierarchy limits process complexity and training time, as separate
                               classifiers were trained for each level (Figure 4A). On the first level, fields were classified
                               on winter crop presence or absence, separating bare soil and crop residues from fields
                               occupied by a winter crop. In the second level, sown fields were further classified into six
                               groups: three catch crop groups (leafy, grass-like, and mixtures) and three non-catch crop
                               groups (legumes, winter cereals, and other winter crops). The resulting label distribution
                               shows that (1) the overall majority of the dataset consists of fields with catch or winter
                               crops present, (2) most observations were collected in the winter years of 2020–2022, and
                               (3) there is a label imbalance within the six crop groups (Figure 4B).

                               2.2.3. Satellite Time Series
                                    For every labeled parcel, the spectral signal was aggregated by taking the mean value
                               over the field. These field boundaries are made publicly available by the government
                               and updated annually, ensuring up-to-date field boundaries. They are also referred to as
                               the Land Parcel Information System (LPIS). The object-based approach reduces noise and
                               heterogeneity within a field and is useful in a decision-making context, as decisions are
                               generally made at the parcel level [25]. To further reduce noise, we applied a 10 m inward
                               buffer at each parcel, a technique that removes the spectrally mixed pixels at the edges of
                               the parcels, thereby reducing the edge effects [10]. Input time series were downloaded for
                               the period of August–April, chosen based on the crop calendars for catch crops and the
                               other prominent winter crops in Flanders. This, therefore, delineates our study period.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                                      8 of 27




                                     shows that (1) the overall majority of the dataset consists of fields with catch or winter
       Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620   crops present, (2) most observations were collected in the winter years of 2020–2022, and 8 of 26
                                     (3) there is a label imbalance within the six crop groups (Figure 4B).




                                                                   (A) Classification hierarchy




                                                                       (B) Label distribution
                                     Figure 4. Overview of (A) the classification hierarchy and (B) the label distribution on both the first
                                              Figure 4. Overview of (A) the classification hierarchy and (B) the label distribution on both the first
                                     (left) and second level (right) of the hierarchy.
                                              (left) and second level (right) of the hierarchy.

                                     2.2.3. Satellite
                                                  TimeTime Series
                                                        series data were calculated for every field using the Sentinel-2 optical satellite
                                           For  every labeledpart
                                             constellation,      parcel, the Copernicus
                                                                     of the   spectral signal     was aggregated
                                                                                              program.      The missionby taking    the mean
                                                                                                                              consists          value
                                                                                                                                          of a two-satellite
                                     over the   field. Theseinfield
                                             constellation           boundaries are orbit
                                                                 a sun-synchronous       madewith           ◦
                                                                                                     a 180available
                                                                                                 publicly                by the government
                                                                                                               phase difference                   andsatellite
                                                                                                                                     [40]. The first
                                     updated was annually,     in 2015, up-to-date
                                                   launchedensuring     and the second fieldinboundaries.
                                                                                                2017. EveryThey 5 days,    alsosame
                                                                                                                      arethe     referred      as the under
                                                                                                                                            tovisited
                                                                                                                                      area is
                                             equal Information
                                     Land Parcel     viewing conditions,      but dueThe
                                                                    System (LPIS).       to overlap   in swaths
                                                                                             object-based           of different
                                                                                                             approach     reduces     noisethere
                                                                                                                                   orbits,         is a revisit
                                                                                                                                             and het-
                                             timewithin
                                     erogeneity     of about   2–3 days
                                                            a field and isover   Belgium.
                                                                            useful   in a decision-making         optical remote
                                                                                              Sentinel-2 uses context,                sensing
                                                                                                                            as decisions            the range
                                                                                                                                             areingen-
                                             of 400at
                                     erally made      nm      2500 nm,
                                                           toparcel
                                                         the         levelwhich
                                                                            [25]. includes
                                                                                   To further  the  Visible
                                                                                                  reduce      (VIS),we
                                                                                                           noise,     Near   Infrared
                                                                                                                                    a 10(NIR),
                                                                                                                         applied           m inwardand Short-
                                     buffer Wave
                                             at eachInfrared
                                                       parcel, (SWIR)    regions.
                                                                a technique    that The    multispectral
                                                                                     removes                sensor,
                                                                                                 the spectrally       MultiSpectral
                                                                                                                    mixed   pixels at the    edges of (MSI),
                                                                                                                                         Instrument
                                             measures
                                     the parcels,         13 spectral
                                                              reducingbands
                                                    thereby                     at different
                                                                         the edge               spatial
                                                                                     effects [10].  Input   time seriesfour
                                                                                                         resolutions:      were bands    at 10 m, for
                                                                                                                                                    six bands
                                                                                                                                  downloaded
                                             at 20of
                                     the period     m,August–April,
                                                        and three bands     at 60 based
                                                                        chosen     m. To on obtain  data from
                                                                                                the crop   calendars     for catchtwo
                                                                                                                   this mission,          different
                                                                                                                                      crops   and the services
                                     other prominent        CropSAR
                                             were used,winter          (version
                                                                   crops           1.0) and
                                                                          in Flanders.        openEO
                                                                                           This,         (version
                                                                                                  therefore,         0.22.0).our study period.
                                                                                                               delineates
                                                    CropSAR
                                           Time-series     data is a service
                                                                 were  calculated    monitors
                                                                               that for           crop using
                                                                                          every field   growth                                 provided by
                                                                                                                                    and it issatellite
                                                                                                                       Belgium, optical
                                                                                                                 theinSentinel-2
                                             VITO,   the  Flemish   Institute  for Technological     Research      [41]. The  CropSAR
                                     constellation, part of the Copernicus program. The mission consists of a two-satellite con-           service   provides
                                     stellation in a sun-synchronous orbit with a 180° phase difference [40]. The first satelliteof both
                                             daily  time   series by applying    a deep    learning  network      trained  on   cloud-free   images
                                             Sentinel-1
                                     was launched          and Sentinel-2
                                                       in 2015,              to interpolate
                                                                 and the second                 between
                                                                                    in 2017. Every         the gaps
                                                                                                       5 days,          of optical
                                                                                                                 the same              visited underthereby
                                                                                                                             area isacquisitions,
                                             combining
                                     equal viewing          optical and
                                                        conditions,       radar
                                                                     but due    to data
                                                                                   overlap    in CropSAR
                                                                                          [42].  swaths of different        to download
                                                                                                               was usedorbits,     there is apreprocessed,
                                                                                                                                               revisit
                                             ready-to-use daily time series for three different indices: the Normalized Difference Vegeta-
                                             tion Index (NDVI), the fraction of Absorbed Photosynthetically Active Radiation (fAPAR),
                                             and the Fraction of green vegetation Cover (FCover) [43]. While the NDVI is an estimation
                                             of the greenness of the land surface, fAPAR and FCover are both biophysical variables
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                             9 of 26



                              of vegetation and can also be measured on the land surface. VITO derived fAPAR and
                              FCover from satellite observations by using a neural network to estimate these biophysical
                              variables from Sentinel-2.
                                   OpenEO provides an API that can be used to acquire and process large Earth obser-
                              vation datasets from different providers in the cloud [44]. The API was used to access
                              Terrascope Level 2A Sentinel-2 data and subsequently transform the raw series of individ-
                              ual images into an equidistant time series. Processing consisted of first masking clouds
                              and cloud shadows with the Scene Classification Layer (SCL) through a kernel process
                              provided by openEO (standard deviation 1.5, window size 11). Then, gaps in the time
                              series were filled by linear interpolation: the time series were first divided into equidistant
                              time intervals, using the median value over a specified period, and then interpolation was
                              applied to fill gaps in the time series. To fill gaps at the start or end of the time series, an
                              extra month was added at the start (July) and end (May). Where gaps remained, the value
                              of the next valid period was duplicated, and if gaps remained, the value from the previous
                              valid period was duplicated. Time series were downloaded with dekadal time intervals
                              for bands B02-04 (VIS), B05-07 (vegetation red-edge), B08 (NIR), and B11-12 (SWIR) of
                              Sentinel-2. Dekadal time intervals consist of three intervals per month, with the first two
                              being 10 days each and the third comprising the remaining 8–11 days, depending on the
                              length of the month. In addition, time series were also downloaded with monthly time
                              intervals for the same bands of Sentinel-2.

                              2.3. Methods
                                   We compared three machine learning models for classifying time series into the
                              winter crop classes: Random Forest (RF), Time Series Forest (TSF), and a One-Dimensional
                              Convolutional Neural Network (1D-CNN). The latter two models explicitly account for the
                              temporal order of the data, while the RF model is added as a baseline method. To compare
                              the model accuracies, each unique model–dataset combination was trained five times with
                              different random seeds, using the same five seeds for each combination to maximize result
                              comparability. All model runs were trained on 75% of the reference dataset and evaluated
                              on the 25% remaining data. The train–test split was stratified by (catch) crop species to
                              maximize the comparability of the training and test sets. Hyperparameters were tuned to
                              maximize the Cohen kappa coefficient, in accordance with [23], and determined at the first
                              hierarchy level, then applied to the second level to reduce selection complexity. In what
                              follows, the models and their training process will be described in more detail. The entire
                              overview of the selected hyperparameters per dataset is given in Appendix B.

                              2.3.1. Random Forest
                                   RF is a non-parametric classifier known for its high accuracy and fast processing,
                              using multiple decision trees created through a bagging approach [20,45]. It assigns class
                              labels based on the majority vote from these trees. The RF model was implemented using
                              the sklearn (v1.3.2) library in Python (v3.11.6) [46,47]. We optimized only the number of
                              estimators to ensure maximal comparability between the two forest-based models (RF
                              and TSF) and set the maximum number of features to zero for the same reason (Table 2).
                              Hyperparameters were tuned using the RandomizedSearchCV function from sklearn,
                              randomly sampling 10 hyperparameter value combinations from the corresponding search
                              space and a 5-fold cross-validation [46]. For the RF model, the search space was too small
                              to sample ten settings, so a maximum of four samples was used, i.e., the entire search space
                              for this model (Table 2).
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                               10 of 26



                              Table 2. Hyperparameter search spaces for each model.

                                        Model                     Hyperparameters                     Search Space
                                          RF                         n_estimators                   200, 300, 400, 500
                                                                     n_estimators                   200, 300, 400, 500
                                          TSF
                                                                     min_interval                        3, 5, 7, 9
                                                                      batch_size                       8, 16, 32, 64
                                                                     learning rate                      0.001–0.1
                                                                     num_epochs                       15, 20, 25, 30
                                         CNN
                                                                       dropout                       0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4
                                                                      kernel_size                        3, 5, 7, 9
                                                                         stride                          1, 2, 3, 5


                              2.3.2. Time Series Forest
                                   A Time Series Forest (TSF) model is a modified Random Forest model specifically
                              adapted to the classification of time series [22]. TSF is a feature-based classification where
                              the feature’s mean, standard deviation, and slope are derived from randomly chosen time
                              intervals in the time series. These features are calculated over a number of intervals and
                              then used for classification. The model was implemented using the sktime library in
                              Python (v0.21.0), using both the TimeSeriesForestClassifier and ColumnEnsembleClassifier
                              for univariate time series input and multivariate input time series, respectively [48,49].
                              Two hyperparameters were optimized again using the RandomizedSearchCV function: the
                              number of estimators (trees) and the minimum interval length (Table 2).

                              2.3.3. One-Dimensional Convolutional Neural Network
                                    CNNs have been used in several vegetation remote sensing applications, including
                              main crop classification and tree crown delineation [27,50]. CNNs make use of convolutions,
                              which can be seen as sliding a filter over input data to detect local patterns, with the weights
                              of this filter optimized during training to identify discriminative features [51,52]. A key
                              advantage of CNNs is weight sharing across all time stamps, reducing the number of
                              parameters to be tuned [17,51].
                                    The 1D-CNN was implemented using the PyTorch (v2.0.1) library in Python [53].
                              The model architecture consists of three sequential convolutional blocks, each consisting
                              of a one-dimensional convolutional layer, a batch normalization, and a ReLU activation
                              function (Figure 5). These three convolutional blocks are followed by two fully connected
                              blocks, each consisting of a linear layer, a batch normalization, and a ReLU activation
                              function (Figure 5). The batch normalizations standardize the inputs of each input batch
                              and thereby help regularize the network and reduce overfitting [17].
                                    For training the network, we used the minibatch stochastic gradient descent approach
                              and implemented it using the SGD optimizer in Pytorch [54]. For the loss function, we
                              used binary cross-entropy at the first level of the hierarchy and cross-entropy at the second
                              level of the hierarchy because binary and multiclass classifications require different loss
                              functions [54]. Using the Ray Tune library in Python, we optimized the following hyperpa-
                              rameters for the network: window size and stride for the convolutional layers, and batch
                              size, learning rate, number of epochs, and dropout for training the network (Table 2) [55].
                              For each input data set, the same 50 hyperparameter combinations were tested out, and bad
                              trials were terminated using the median stopping rule. Instead of a 5-fold cross-validation,
                              the training data (75% of the dataset) was split once in an 80–20 split, stratified by the
                              classification group. This means that, in total, 60% of the entire reference dataset was
                              used for training the models on various hyperparameter sets and 15% for evaluating. The
                              remaining 25% was allocated to the validation set.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                            11 of 27
 Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                                           11 of 26




                                   Figure 5. Network architecture of the One-Dimensional Convolutional Neural Network (1D-CNN).
                                 Figure 5. Network architecture
                                   The convolutional    blocks eachofcomprise
                                                                      the One-Dimensional   Convolutional
                                                                              a convolutional             Neural
                                                                                               layer (number      Network
                                                                                                             of filters, 8, 16,(1D-CNN).
                                                                                                                                 32), a batch
                                 The convolutional blocks each comprise a convolutional layer (number of filters, 8, 16, 32), a batch
                                   normalization, and a Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) activation function. The fully connected blocks
                                 normalization, and a Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) activation function. The fully connected blocks
                                   each consist of a linear layer, a batch normalization, and ReLU activation function.
                                 each consist of a linear layer, a batch normalization, and ReLU activation function.
                                     2.3.4. Experimental Setup
                                         For training the network, we used the minibatch stochastic gradient descent ap-
                                           The first research objective aimed to compare models and inputs for catch crop clas-
                                   proach and implemented it using the SGD optimizer in Pytorch [54]. For the loss function,
                                     sification, which was addressed through two experiments, evaluating multiple factors
                                   we used binary cross-entropy at the first level of the hierarchy and cross-entropy at the
                                     affecting classification accuracies for all three models. The first experiment aimed to study
                                   second level of the hierarchy because binary and multiclass classifications require differ-
                                     the influence of temporal resolution on the classification by using time series with three
                                   ent loss functions [54]. Using the Ray Tune library in Python, we optimized the following
                                     different temporal intervals: daily, dekadal, and monthly intervals. To achieve this, we used
                                   hyperparameters for the network: window size and stride for the convolutional layers,
                                     the daily NDVI time series downloaded from CropSAR and resampled it to dekadal and
                                   and
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW batch size, learning rate, number of epochs, and dropout for training the network 12 of 27
                                     monthly intervals by taking the mean value in every interval (Figure 6). The experiment
                                   (Table
                                     used 2)the[55]. For each
                                                full time seriesinput data
                                                                  length, ranging     same
                                                                            set, thefrom   50 hyperparameter
                                                                                         August to April.     combinations were
                                   tested out, and bad trials were terminated using the median stopping rule. Instead of a 5-
                                   fold cross-validation, the training data (75% of the dataset) was split once in an 80–20 split,
                                   stratified by the classification group. This means that, in total, 60% of the entire reference
                                   dataset was used for training the models on various hyperparameter sets and 15% for
                                   evaluating. The remaining 25% was allocated to the validation set.

                                 2.3.4. Experimental Setup
                                       The first research objective aimed to compare models and inputs for catch crop clas-
                                 sification, which was addressed through two experiments, evaluating multiple factors af-
                                 fecting classification accuracies for all three models. The first experiment aimed to study
                                 the influence of temporal resolution on the classification by using time series with three
                                 different temporal intervals: daily, dekadal, and monthly intervals. To achieve this, we
                                 used the daily NDVI time series downloaded from CropSAR and resampled it to dekadal
                                 and monthly intervals by taking the mean value in every interval (Figure 6). The experi-
                                 ment used the full time-series length, ranging from August to April.




                                   Figure
                                 Figure  6.6. Average
                                           Average     NDVI
                                                     NDVI      time seriesatat(A)
                                                             time-series                   (B)dekadal,
                                                                                   daily,(B)
                                                                               (A)daily,       dekadal,andand(C)
                                                                                                              (C)monthly
                                                                                                                  monthlytemporal    resolution
                                                                                                                           temporalresolution
                                   for each of the classes. Linear interpolation    was   used  to create continuous time
                                 for each of the classes. Linear interpolation was used to create continuous time series.  series.

                                        Thesecond
                                      The            experimentevaluated
                                              secondexperiment     evaluatedhow
                                                                              howinput     featuresaffect
                                                                                    inputfeatures    affectclassification
                                                                                                             classification accuracy,
                                                                                                                          accuracy,
                                   aiming  to  determine if additional information   beyond   NDVI   could   improve
                                 aiming to determine if additional information beyond NDVI could improve accuracy. Partaccuracy. Part
                                  A  of this experiment  compared   daily NDVI   time  series with  multivariate
                                 A of this experiment compared daily NDVI time series with multivariate time seriestime series (NDVI,
                                   fAPAR,
                                 (NDVI,      and FCover)
                                          fAPAR,           to assess
                                                   and FCover)       the added
                                                                 to assess       valuevalue
                                                                                         of biophysical
                                                                           the added                      variables.
                                                                                              of biophysical              Part
                                                                                                                       In In
                                                                                                               variables.       B, B,
                                                                                                                                   we
                                                                                                                             Part
                                 we used the dekadal Sentinel-2 dataset to construct three input feature sets: (1) dekadal
                                 NDVI time series, (2) dekadal time series with the raw reflectance values from each band
                                 of Sentinel-2 and (3) dekadal time series with normalized reflectance values from each
                                 band of Sentinel-2. This tested the impact of both additional features and normalization
                                 on classification accuracy. Z-normalization was applied on each timestamp–band combi-
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                            12 of 26



                              used the dekadal Sentinel-2 dataset to construct three input feature sets: (1) dekadal NDVI
                              time series, (2) dekadal time series with the raw reflectance values from each band of
                              Sentinel-2 and (3) dekadal time series with normalized reflectance values from each band
                              of Sentinel-2. This tested the impact of both additional features and normalization on
                              classification accuracy. Z-normalization was applied on each timestamp–band combination
                              separately and was calculated as follows:

                                                                                x−u
                                                                         z=                                                (1)
                                                                                 s
                              where x is the reflectance value, u is the mean, and s is the standard deviation, calculated
                              using the StandardScaler in sklearn [46]. Again, we used the full time series length, ranging
                              from August to April, for this experiment. These first two experiments combined are used
                              to answer the first two research questions.
                                   In the second research objective, we focused on applying the models in a real-world
                              scenario for early-season classification on a year excluded from training and validation.
                              Therefore, the third experiment evaluated model performance throughout the season by
                              varying time series lengths, always starting in August and extending month by month to
                              April. Testing the temporal transferability of the models was done for the years the models
                              were trained upon and on the dataset for the winter 2022–2023, which was excluded from
                              training. This experiment used the input feature set with the highest accuracy, which was
                              identified in the previous two experiments, and aimed to answer the third and fourth
                              research questions.

                              2.3.5. Accuracy Assessment
                                   To evaluate the accuracy of the models, the results from the classification hierarchy
                              were first combined into two coarse-labeled groups: catch crops and no-catch crops. The
                              catch crop group consists of the grass group, leafy group, and mixtures, while all other
                              classes are grouped in no catch crops. Based on the classification of these two groups,
                              the models were compared with a macro F1-score as a measure to compare the overall
                              classification. The F1-score was chosen over the overall accuracy because of the role of
                              chance agreement in an unbalanced dataset, where the overall accuracy favors the dominant
                              class [29]. The calculation of the F1-score is given by:

                                                                             Precision ∗ recall
                                                                  F1 = 2 ∗                                                 (2)
                                                                             Precision + recall
                              where precision is the proportion of positive (negative) predictions that are actually positive
                              (negative), and recall is the proportion of positives (negatives) that are actually predicted as
                              positive (negative). Because the models were run five times on each unique input dataset,
                              each time with a different random state, all the F1-scores were calculated five times.

                              3. Results
                              3.1. End-of-Season Classification
                                   The first experiment examined the effect of temporal resolution on the classification
                              performance of all models. All models achieved the highest F1-scores on the daily temporal
                              resolution for the coarse-label classification, with a median F1-score of 86.5% for the RF
                              model, 86.5% for the TSF model, and 85.9% for the CNN model (Figure 7). Every model
                              type reached the lowest F1-score on the monthly time resolution, and here, the median
                              values for the F1-scores were 85.1% for RF, 81.8% for TSF, and 83.6% for CNN. Further, each
                              model type has a different rate in the decline of the F1-scores, where the TSF model has the
                              largest decline in performance, while RF has the lowest decline.
                                 poral resolution for the coarse-label classification, with a median F1-score of 86.5% for the
                                 RF model, 86.5% for the TSF model, and 85.9% for the CNN model (Figure 7). Every model
                                 type reached the lowest F1-score on the monthly time resolution, and here, the median
                                 values for the F1-scores were 85.1% for RF, 81.8% for TSF, and 83.6% for CNN. Further,
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620      each model type has a different rate in the decline of the F1-scores, where the TSF13 ofmodel
                                                                                                                         26
                                 has the largest decline in performance, while RF has the lowest decline.




Remote Sens. 2024, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                            14 of 27




                                 85.1–87.5%       plots 8B).
                                              (Figure
                                 Figure 7. Violin            However,
                                                        for the F1-scoresthe  CNN
                                                                          of the firstresulted in agiven
                                                                                       experiment        forrange
                                                                                                    larger          of F1-scores
                                                                                                             three temporal       (83.5–
                                                                                                                             resolutions
                                 Figure 7. Violin plots for the F1-scores of the first experiment given for three temporal resolutions
                                 86.0%)
                                 and threecompared
                                      three different to the forest-based models.          is especially
                                                                                     ThisSeries         or the  case afor the F1-scores
                                 and                  models(Random
                                            differentmodels   (RandomForest oror
                                                                       Forest  RF, Time
                                                                                 RF,            Forest
                                                                                      Time Series   Forest TSF,  andand
                                                                                                           or TSF,     One-Dimensional
                                                                                                                         a One-Dimensional
                                 with  raw  bands   as
                                 Convolutional Neural  an input dataset, where  a wide   range   of values   was   obtained  (F1-scores
                                 Convolutional    Neural Network   or 1D-CNN).
                                                          Network or  1D-CNN).Within
                                                                                  Withinthe    violinplots,
                                                                                           theviolin   plots,the   boxplotsare
                                                                                                               theboxplots   aredepicted
                                                                                                                                 depicted in
                                 82.0–87.9%).
                                 in black.
                                 black.
                                                 However,   the  CNN   model   showed     less  variability   in  model   performance
                                 when the Sentinel-2 bands were normalized (F1-scores 88.5–89.5%). In contrast, the TSF
                                 modelIn part A ofinthe second experiment,     wewith
                                                                                   thenanlooked   at the influence of biophysical
                                      In resulted     a constant
                                          part A of the   second performance
                                                                   experiment, we     then F1-score
                                                                                            looked at    around
                                                                                                      ofthe      85.3–85.8%.
                                                                                                            influence          The
                                                                                                                       of biophysical
                                 median    on the classification
                                 variablesF1-score               performance.
                                                   for the RF model   showed aAtdecrease
                                                                                   both daily
                                                                                            fromand dekadal
                                                                                                  87.5%      temporal
                                                                                                         to 84.2% when resolutions,
                                                                                                                         using the
                                 variables on the classification performance. At both daily and dekadal temporal resolu-
                                 the dataset,
                                 raw            Sentinel-2the
                                      bands ofincluding         biophysical
                                                            compared   to thatvariables
                                                                               using NDVI     only.and
                                                                                         (fAPAR     WhenFCover),  attained
                                                                                                                        the higher
                                                                                                           normalizing      bands
                                 tions, thefor
                                 F1-scores   dataset,
                                                every  including
                                                      model   type  the biophysical
                                                                    compared            variables (fAPAR      and FCover),    attained
                                 of Sentinel-2, performance    increases againtotothe  NDVI-only
                                                                                   a median         dataset
                                                                                               F1-score     (Figure
                                                                                                        of 88.8%.   8A).
                                 higher F1-scores for every model type compared to the NDVI-only dataset (Figure 8A).
                                      Part B of this second experiment looked at the classification performance of the mod-
                                 els on the time series, purely derived from Sentinel-2 data. Three sets of input features
                                 were compared at a dekadal temporal resolution: NDVI, the raw bands, and normalized
                                 bands. When using NDVI as an input feature, the median F1-scores were in the range of




                                 Figure 8.
                                 Figure  8. Violin
                                            Violin plots
                                                   plots for
                                                         for the
                                                             the F1-scores of the
                                                                 F1-scores of  the second
                                                                                   second experiment
                                                                                          experiment given
                                                                                                      given for
                                                                                                             for three
                                                                                                                  three temporal
                                                                                                                         temporal resolutions
                                                                                                                                  resolutions
                                 and  three different models   (Random    Forest  or RF,
                                 and three different models (Random Forest or RF, Time Series Forest or TSF, and One-Dimensional
                                                                                         Time Series Forest or TSF,   and  One-Dimensional
                                 Convolutional Neural Network or 1D-CNN). (A) Part A of the second experiment and (B) part B of
                                 Convolutional Neural Network or 1D-CNN). (A) Part A of the second experiment and (B) part B of
                                 the second experiment. Within the violin plots, boxplots are depicted in black.
                                 the second experiment. Within the violin plots, boxplots are depicted in black.

                                       Part B of more
                                      Looking          closelyexperiment
                                                 this second                 lookedclassification
                                                                 at the fine-label                 of the three
                                                                                     at the classification       models, it
                                                                                                                         ofwas
                                                                                                            performance         shown
                                                                                                                            the models
                                 that all models   confused    the  three  catch crop  groups  (leafy,  grass-like, and
                                 on the time series, purely derived from Sentinel-2 data. Three sets of input features  mixture)  with
                                 each  other  (Figure  9). The   leafy  group    was mostly   confused    with  the
                                 were compared at a dekadal temporal resolution: NDVI, the raw bands, and normalizedmixtures,  and the
                                 mixtures
                                 bands. Whenwere using
                                                  mostlyNDVI
                                                           confused    with
                                                                   as an     thefeature,
                                                                          input   grass group.  There were
                                                                                          the median          also some
                                                                                                                    weremisclassifica-
                                                                                                         F1-scores        in the range
                                 tions between    catch  crops  and   winter   cereals,
                                 of 85.1–87.5% (Figure 8B). However, the CNN resulted in a larger range and
                                                                                        mostly  between    the grass-like      mixture
                                                                                                                          of F1-scores
                                 groups.  Small   groups    like  legumes,    other  winter
                                 (83.5–86.0%) compared to the forest-based models. This is especially the case for mostly
                                                                                             crops,   and  the no-crop  group   the F1-
                                 ended   up inraw
                                 scores with   the bands
                                                    three biggest    groups:
                                                           as an input         the grass
                                                                                    wheregroup,
                                                                          dataset,                  range of and
                                                                                           a widemixtures,           was cereals.
                                                                                                                  winter
                                                                                                              values      obtained (F1-
                                 scores 82.0–87.9%). However, the CNN model showed less variability in model performance
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                                     14 of 26



                              Figure
                                when8.the
                                        Violin plots forbands
                                           Sentinel-2    the F1-scores of the second
                                                               were normalized        experiment
                                                                                    (F1-scores     given for three
                                                                                                 88.5–89.5%).      temporal the
                                                                                                                            resolutions
                                                                                                               In contrast,     TSF
                              and  three different models  (Random    Forest or RF,  Time Series  Forest or TSF, and
                                model resulted in a constant performance with an F1-score of around 85.3–85.8%. The   One-Dimensional
                              Convolutional   Neural
                                median F1-score    for Network   or 1D-CNN).
                                                       the RF model    showed(A)               the second
                                                                                    Part A offrom
                                                                                a decrease                experiment
                                                                                                    87.5% to 84.2% when          theB of
                                                                                                                           (B) part
                                                                                                                       andusing
                              the second  experiment.   Within  the violin plots, boxplots are  depicted in black.
                                raw bands of Sentinel-2 compared to that using NDVI only. When normalizing the bands
                                of Sentinel-2, performance increases again to a median F1-score of 88.8%.
                                    Looking
                                      Lookingmore
                                               more closely
                                                      closely atat the fine-labelclassification
                                                                   the fine-label  classificationofofthe    three
                                                                                                       thethree    models,
                                                                                                                models,     it was
                                                                                                                         it was    shown
                                                                                                                                shown
                              that  all models   confused     the  three  catch  crop  groups  (leafy,   grass-like,  and
                                that all models confused the three catch crop groups (leafy, grass-like, and mixture) with mixture)  with
                              each   other  (Figure   9). The   leafy  group
                                each other (Figure 9). The leafy group was mostly confused with the mixtures, and the mix-the
                                                                               was   mostly   confused      with  the mixtures,   and
                              mixtures
                                tures werewere  mostly
                                             mostly       confused
                                                     confused     withwith  the grass
                                                                       the grass  group.  ThereThere
                                                                                        group.           weresome
                                                                                                                also misclassifications
                                                                                                 were also           some misclassifica-
                              tions  between
                                between   catchcatch
                                                crops crops    and winter
                                                       and winter     cereals,cereals,  mostly between
                                                                               mostly between                the grass-like
                                                                                                 the grass-like   and mixture     mixture
                                                                                                                             andgroups.
                                Small groups
                              groups.    Small like        like other
                                                    legumes,
                                                groups                  winter
                                                                 legumes,       crops,
                                                                             other     and the
                                                                                    winter            andgroup
                                                                                                no-crop
                                                                                             crops,          the no-crop   groupup
                                                                                                                   mostly ended      in
                                                                                                                                   mostly
                                the three biggest  groups:    the  grass  group,  mixtures, and   winter    cereals.
                              ended up in the three biggest groups: the grass group, mixtures, and winter cereals.




                    (A) RF                                  (B) TSF                                      (C) 1D-CNN

                               Figure 9. Confusion matrices for the fine-label, end-of-season classification for three different models:
                               (A) Random Forest (RF), (B) Time Series Forest (TSF), and (C) One-Dimensional Convolutional Neural
                               Network (1D-CNN). The blue frames indicate the coarse-label classification groups.

                               3.2. Early-Season Classification
                                    From the first two experiments, the input feature set that achieved the highest overall
                               F1-scores was selected, which was the daily NDVI, fAPAR, and FCover time series. The
                               third experiment focused on assessing the early-season performance of the models and their
                               temporal transferability using this ‘best’ input feature combination. When training and
                               evaluating the same years, all models showed an increase in F1-scores when including extra
                               time steps throughout the first three months (September, October, November) (Figure 10).
                               However, adding extra time steps only marginally improves model performance from
                               December onwards, as indicated by a stagnation in the F1-scores. The inclusion of March
                               and April into the time series again resulted in an increase in F1-scores.
                                    When evaluating the early-season performance of the models separately, the forest-
                               based models (RF and TSF) attain a median F1-score surpassing 85% in November, whereas
                               the CNN model only reaches this threshold in March (Figure 10). By April, all models
                               reach their highest median F1-score. However, the CNN model resulted in lower and more
                               variable F1-scores, particularly earlier in the season.
                 sion of March and April into the time series again resulted in an increase in F1-scores.
                         When evaluating the early-season performance of the models separately, the forest-
                 based models (RF and TSF) attain a median F1-score surpassing 85% in November,
                 whereas the CNN model only reaches this threshold in March (Figure 10). By April, all
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                                 15 of 26
                 models reach their highest median F1-score. However, the CNN model resulted in lower
                 and more variable F1-scores, particularly earlier in the season.
                         When applying the trained models to the time series of a target (winter) year to assess
                                        When applying the trained models to the time series of a target (winter) year to assess
                 transferability, the increase   in F1-score with time steps remained for the forest-based mod-
                                  transferability, the increase in F1-score with time steps remained for the forest-based models
                 els (Figure 10). In contrast, the CNN model showed a very unstable performance that
                                  (Figure 10). In contrast, the CNN model showed a very unstable performance that lacked
                 lacked this general upward trend and produced a larger range of F1-scores compared to
                                  this general upward trend and produced a larger range of F1-scores compared to the other
                 the other two models.     All models
                                  two models.             reached
                                                 All models  reached             modelaccuracy
                                                                      maximummodel
                                                                    maximum              accuracy in               me- F1-scores
                                                                                                              withmedian
                                                                                                       Aprilwith
                                                                                                    in April
                 dian F1-scores of   88.8%   for  RF, 88.3%   for TSF, and  81.5%   for the  CNN    model.   Therefore,
                                  of 88.8% for RF, 88.3% for TSF, and 81.5% for the CNN model. Therefore, the forest-based
                                    models
                 the forest-basedmodels      reached
                                          reached       very
                                                     very     similar
                                                           similar    median
                                                                   median      F1-scores
                                                                           F1-scores  whenwhen    training
                                                                                             training       and evalu-in the same
                                                                                                       and evaluating
                 ating in the same   years in  April  (RF  88.7%  and  TSF  88.9%),  while  the CNN
                                  years in April (RF 88.7% and TSF 88.9%), while the CNN model reached  model  reached
                                                                                                                   a lower median
                 a lower medianF1-score
                                    F1-scoreinin comparison
                                               comparison       (87.9%).
                                                             (87.9%).




                                Figure 10. F1-scores for the third experiment, which was completed on daily time series with features
                                NDVI-fAPAR-FCover for three models (RF, TSF, and 1D-CNN). (A) Results when trained and tested
                                on the same years; (B) results when the models are applied on a target year. Month on the x-axis
                                shows the end point of the time series: e.g., Dec represents a time series starting in August and
                                ending in December. Shadowing indicates the standard deviation on the results from the diferent
                                model runs. Note that the results for RF and TSF largely overlap in panel (A).

                                     Revisiting the early-season performance of each model, TSF achieves a median F1-
                                score of 85% in December, followed by RF in February, whereas the CNN model fails
                                to reach a median F1-score of 85%. Compared to the same year training and testing,
                                the models attain this threshold later in the season during the separate validation year.
                                Maximum F1bscores were again all reached in April. The CNN model reached a score of
                                83%, while RF and TSF reached F1-scores of 89% and 88%, respectively. These classification
                                results were illustrated on a map using the RF model (Figure 11).
                                       score of 85% in December, followed by RF in February, whereas the CNN model fails to
                                       reach a median F1-score of 85%. Compared to the same year training and testing, the mod-
                                       els attain this threshold later in the season during the separate validation year. Maximum
                                       F1bscores were again all reached in April. The CNN model reached a score of 83%, while
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                                  16 of 26
                                       RF and TSF reached F1-scores of 89% and 88%, respectively. These classification results
                                       were illustrated on a map using the RF model (Figure 11).




Remote Sens. 2024, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW                                                                                               17 of 27

                              (A) Ground truth binary                                       (B) Classification binary




                         (C) Ground truth fine-label                                      (D) Classification fine-label




                                                         (E) Location in the study area
                                      Figure 11. Maps to illustrate the results of the Random Forest (RF) model on time series until April.
                                      Figure 11. Maps to illustrate the results of the Random Forest (RF) model on time series until April.
                                      Binary (A) ground truth and (B) classification results, fine-label (C) ground truth and (D) classifica-
                                      Binary (A) ground truth and (B) classification results, fine-label (C) ground truth and (D) classification
                                      tion results. (E) Location of maps (A–D) in the study area. Land use: Department of Environment
                                      results. (E) Location
                                      and Spatial           of maps
                                                   Development       (A–D) in the study area. Land use:(accessed
                                                                 (www.vlaanderen.be/datavindplaats           Department      Environment
                                                                                                                     on 22ofNovember        and
                                                                                                                                       2024)).
                                      Spatial Development (www.vlaanderen.be/datavindplaats (accessed on 22 November 2024)).
                                       4. Discussion
                                       4.1. Model Comparison
                                            Our results show marked differences in the performance of three tested classification
                                       models (RF, TSF, and 1D-CNN). While the RF algorithm demonstrated its versatility by
                                       delivering consistent results on different datasets, the TSF model was more dependent on
                                       the input dataset than RF, and the 1D-CNN model often resulted in lower accuracies than
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                           17 of 26



                              4. Discussion
                              4.1. Model Comparison
                                    Our results show marked differences in the performance of three tested classification
                              models (RF, TSF, and 1D-CNN). While the RF algorithm demonstrated its versatility by
                              delivering consistent results on different datasets, the TSF model was more dependent
                              on the input dataset than RF, and the 1D-CNN model often resulted in lower accuracies
                              than the other models and displayed a high degree of variability between model runs.
                              Given that RF has been used in a wide range of remote sensing classification tasks, as
                              reviewed by [20], our finding that it performs robustly across datasets is consistent with
                              previous research. In contrast, the results of our time series-specific algorithms differ
                              from previous research. For example, in their study comparing time series classification
                              algorithms on univariate time series, TSF outperformed both baseline classifiers, with
                              RF showing similar performance to the baseline classifiers [56]. However, this study
                              did not include remotely sensed time series, and their datasets mostly contain time
                              series with <1000 training instances that are longer than 50 time steps. In contrast, our
                              datasets contain >5900 training instances with 9, 27, or 273 time steps, depending on the
                              temporal resolution (respectively monthly, dekadal, and daily), which may also explain
                              the different results.
                                    Further, in time series-based crop classification, several studies have demonstrated
                              enhanced classification results with the use of a deep learning classifier in comparison with
                              shallow machine learning techniques. For example, refs. [15,17] reported improved crop
                              classification results using 1D-CNNs compared to RFs. However, in our application, 1D-
                              CNNs often did not outperform a baseline RF, with the exception of the normalized dekadal
                              band dataset in experiment 2B. A very likely explanation for these contrasting results is the
                              limited number of training samples in our field-visit and object-based approach, resulting
                              in approximately 6000 training samples over multiple years and ranging from 325 to
                              2359 samples per class (Figure 4B). A recent study on time series-based crop classification
                              using 1D-CNNs used 4000 training samples per class, a number chosen after an analysis
                              of the amount of training data and the mapping accuracy [57]. These results suggest that
                              28,000 training samples, spread evenly across classes, would be required for deep learning
                              to be effective in our catch crop classification. Often, many more training samples are used.
                              References [15,17] used labels available from a single-year crop survey in combination
                              with a pixel-based approach, resulting in approximately 1 million and 2 million training
                              samples, respectively, with samples per class ranging from 9000 to 292,000. Due to its data
                              limitation, the catch-crop classification could not fully benefit from the advantages that
                              deep learning models provide. Therefore, the large number of labeled data needed for deep
                              learning models proved to be a limitation for improved catch crop-type classification with
                              these models. Switching to a pixel-wise classification would be a quick win for creating
                              more training data without increasing the field efforts. Other options for handling the large
                              data requirement of deep learning models are data augmentation and transfer learning; the
                              latter will be discussed below.

                              4.2. Fine-Label Classification
                                   Across all models, it proved difficult to make a fine-label classification of winter crops
                              based on their temporal profile alone (Figure 9). The fine-label classification resulted in
                              confusion between different groups, notably between the grass group and the mixtures,
                              which was expected because mixtures can also be a mix of two grass-like catch crops.
                              The same can be said about confusion between leafy species and mixtures, as mixtures
                              can consist of multiple leafy species. Theoretically, mixtures between grass-like and leafy
                              groups could result in a unique canopy structure and, thus, a distinguishing feature from
                              the other catch crop groups. However, in reality, competition between species makes
                              the proportion of a single catch crop in the canopy unpredictable, resulting in canopy
                              heterogeneity [58]. Factors influencing the canopy composition are management, soil type,
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                           18 of 26



                              and weather conditions rather than the ratio in the seed mix. The heterogeneity of the
                              mixture group limits the separability of the catch crop groups.
                                   Our results are similar to those found by [3], who also had difficulty distinguishing
                              between catch crop species based on a time series-based classification with RF. Further, [59]
                              similarly performed a time series-based classification with RF to distinguish two cover crop
                              species: cereal rye and red clover. In particular, they noted that rye was often misclassified
                              as fallow, which they attributed to (1) the highly variable biomass production depending
                              on the planting date, causing fields with low biomass to resemble fallow fields with weeds,
                              and (2) the interseeding of rye with crop residue, resulting in fields with low biomass
                              production to appear similar to fields with maize stubble. These observations of high
                              biomass variability and interseeding with crop residue were also noted in our fieldwork
                              for the grass group (including rye), which also resulted in variability in spectral signals
                              within this group for a single winter cropping year (Appendix C). The high variability
                              within the grass group could, therefore, explain the high confusion of this group with the
                              other classes.

                              4.3. Effect of Temporal Resolution and Input Variables
                                   The first experiment revealed that a higher temporal resolution of the input time
                              series resulted in a more accurate classification. This is consistent with the results of crop
                              classification studies by [19,60], who also reported improved accuracy with higher temporal
                              resolution, although with marginal improvements in [60]. The highest accuracies were
                              achieved using multivariate daily time series consisting of NDVI, fAPAR, and FCover
                              inputs. This suggests that incorporating a wide range of features can indeed be beneficial,
                              contrary to the expected limitations of the Hughes phenomenon, where the addition of
                              too many features beyond a certain point does not improve classification accuracy [61].
                              This added value of using more input features is observed at both daily and dekadal
                              temporal resolution.
                                   In addition to the use of other engineered features, the use of (normalized) reflectance
                              bands improved the performance of most of the RF and CNN models over using NDVI
                              alone. Notably, the combination of CNN with normalized input features resulted in the
                              best performance for the CNN model. This finding indicates a potential loss of information
                              when overly relying on feature engineering in the case of CNN models [50]. Normalization
                              of input features proved crucial when using reflectance band inputs in combination with
                              the CNN model: the normalization not only increased the F-scores but also yielded more
                              consistent predictions between model runs. This improvement can be attributed to the
                              normalization process ensuring that the variation in data is not overly dominated by
                              features with a larger dynamic range, thus balancing the influence of each feature on the
                              model’s output [17]. Experiment 2B showed that both extensively preprocessed datasets
                              for higher temporal resolution and raw input time series can achieve similar accuracies
                              when used with the appropriate model type.
                                   The experiments demonstrated that additional information could be extracted from
                              the raw input by using biophysical variables in addition to the NDVI or by using a suitable
                              model type in combination with the raw input itself. Future work could explore additional
                              vegetation indices, similar to the approach taken by [59] in their catch-crop-type classifi-
                              cation, especially since a number of alternative indices are aimed at addressing specific
                              NDVI limitations. In addition, our study focused on the use of Sentinel-2, and although the
                              daily NDVI, fAPAR, and FCover time series were derived from combining Sentinel-1 and
                              Sentinel-2, a winter crop classification might benefit from a direct integration of radar-based
                              (Sentinel-1) input features [8,62,63].
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                            19 of 26



                              4.4. Early-Season Classification Performance for Separate Target Year
                                    The third experiment showed the trends in classification accuracy throughout the
                              winter season. The F1-scores increased until November, then stagnated, and increased
                              again throughout March and April. Overall, the models improved as the time series
                              lengthened, which is an expected result and consistent with previous research [14]. The
                              stagnation could potentially be explained by the limited number of cloud-free images that
                              are available in these parts of the season, which could restrict the early-season classification
                              for winter crops compared to that of main crops. Peak F1-scores were reached by the
                              end of April, which is likely due to the distinct temporal profile of winter cereals when
                              April is included (Figure 6). Because winter cereals, unlike catch crops, remain on the field
                              after winter, their time series show a continuous increase in the vegetation index values
                              around March and April, which contrasts with the downward trend of catch crops over the
                              same period (Figure 6). This discriminating characteristic is probably also the reason that
                              the fine-label classification of winter cereals performed relatively well compared to other
                              classes (Figure 9).
                                    When comparing the models for their early-season classification capabilities on the
                              validation year, we see that the forest-based models reach the threshold F1-score of 85%
                              later in the season than for the years included in the training. A slight drop in performance
                              on a separate target year was expected, as temporal (and spatial) transferability is generally
                              a challenge in crop classification, even when multiple years have been used for training [28].
                              This is due to different weather conditions between years, which affect crop development
                              and result in different temporal profiles for the same crop [28,29]. Reference [19] even
                              reports that the variation in spectral profiles between years is the main factor in reducing
                              the accuracy of the early-season mapping of main crops. Interannual differences could,
                              therefore, offer an explanation for the slightly lower accuracies of the forest-based models
                              earlier in the season (Appendix C). The differing weather conditions during the summer and
                              autumn months every year impact the timing of growth stages of the catch crops, resulting
                              in variations in crop development earlier in the season. For example, a large part of the
                              training data come from the year 2021 (winter year 2021–2022), with an exceptionally wet
                              summer and a rather dry autumn, while 2022 (winter year 2022–2023) had an exceptionally
                              dry summer followed by a warm autumn, which is likely to have affected the growth stages
                              of the catch crops differently compared to the previous year [64,65].
                                    However, interannual differences do not entirely explain the lack of generalization to
                              the target year for the 1D-CNN model; its results most likely point to an overfitting problem.
                              Although various regularization methods, such as dropout and batch normalization, were
                              used to prevent overfitting, the model type itself also plays an important role: given the
                              large number of parameters that need to be fitted for a deep learning model such as a
                              CNN, the limited number of samples is again the most likely explanation. Even though the
                              potential of deep learning approaches, and more specifically, 1D-CNN, have been reported
                              for early-season mapping [19], our application does not seem to benefit from deep learning
                              models over machine learning models. RF is the better option for early-season classification,
                              given our limited dataset.
                                    This issue of temporal model generalizability, particularly in the context of early-
                              season mapping, has gained attention in recent crop mapping research [28–30]. These
                              studies have focused on early-season time series classification with transformer-based mod-
                              els, which represent the current state-of-the-art in deep learning. Transformers can exploit
                              temporal dependencies and handle variable time series lengths as inputs [66], making them
                              highly suitable for early-season mapping as a single model can be used for progressive
                              mapping throughout the season [28,29]. Ref. [29] demonstrated the effectiveness of a
                              transformer-based deep learning architecture for early-season crop mapping, highlighting
                              its temporal (and spatial) generalizability. However, their approach requires a substantial
                              amount of labeled data to train this transformer-based model, an architecture that often
                              requires larger datasets in comparison to CNNs to achieve better performance [67]. Our
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                                      20 of 26



                              study already faced the constraint of limited sample availability with CNNs, so it can be
                              questioned how useful this specific model would be for our catch crop classification.
                                    Fortunately, recent research also addresses this aspect of limited labeled data avail-
                              ability. Here, transfer learning, a machine learning technique that transfers knowledge
                              between related tasks, emerged as a strategy to alleviate the need for labeled data in envi-
                              ronmental remote sensing [67]. For example, ref. [28] demonstrated pre-trained models,
                              providing a strong starting point for early-season crop mapping in a separate target year
                              for which no data are yet available, even when the vegetation trend differs between years.
                              Reference [30] similarly demonstrated the effectiveness of transfer learning for the trans-
                              ferability of crop mapping models on Sentinel-1 data. Therefore, there is a need for the
                              development of transferable models or even foundation models in remote sensing, which
                              are large pre-trained and often transformer-based models that can be applied to a variety of
                              tasks downstream through transfer learning [67]. As such, future work can explore transfer
                              learning for early-season catch crop classification—for example, with a recently developed
                              pre-trained transformer model for remote sensing time series by [68]—as this approach
                              seems to generalize well even with limited training data.

                              5. Conclusions
                                   This study aimed to assess the feasibility of end-of-season catch crop classification
                              with Sentinel-2 time series, with specific attention given to the optimization of the model
                              type and the input features. The best model–input combination was then tested in a real-
                              world scenario for early-season catch crop classification in a separate target year, thereby
                              testing its temporal transferability. In summary, RF displayed the highest adaptability
                              to input features and often outperformed time series-specific classification methods, TSF,
                              and 1D-CNN. This study demonstrated the benefits of using high temporal resolution
                              time series, as well as a diverse range of input features for the catch crop classification
                              task. When the models were applied for early-season classification in a separate target
                              year, the models reached the F1-score threshold of 85% at least one month later than for
                              the training years. Overall, the advantages of deep learning approaches (1D-CNN) could
                              not be demonstrated, probably due to the limited amount of reference data available to
                              train the models. However, very recent research into early-season crop classification and
                              temporal transferability shows opportunities for the real-world application of deep learning
                              classification models for catch crop classification.

                              Author Contributions: Conceptualization, K.V, S.H., E.B., and B.S.; methodology, K.V., S.H., and
                              E.B.; software, K.V. and E.B.; validation, K.V.; formal analysis, K.V.; investigation, K.V.; data curation,
                              K.V. and E.B.; writing—original draft preparation, K.V.; writing—review and editing, K.V., S.H.,
                              E.B., and B.S.; visualization, K.V.; supervision, S.H. and B.S.; project administration, S.H. and B.S.;
                              funding acquisition, S.H. and B.S. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of
                              the manuscript.
                              Funding: This research was funded by Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), grant number S006421N.
                              Data Availability Statement: The data presented in this study are available on request from the
                              corresponding author. The data are not publicly available due to privacy restrictions.
                              Acknowledgments: A special thanks to the Vlaamse Landmaatschappij (Flemish Land Agency) and
                              the Agency for Agriculture and Fisheries for their help regarding data collection. Also, thanks to Zifu
                              Wang for providing useful feedback regarding deep learning.
                              Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest. The funders had no role in the design
                              of the study; in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or
                              in the decision to publish the results.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                              21 of 26



                              Appendix A
                                   For preprocessing the dataset from the department of Agriculture and Fisheries, we
                              took a two-step approach. First, the useful observations were selected based on the label
                              and the date of the observation. Second, the selected labels were checked with their
                              corresponding time series to filter out any discrepancies. This was done because the field
                              observations are taken at a single point in time, while fields are subject to change. For
                              example, it could be that a field visit in October results in the label ‘bare soil’, while visiting
                              the same field a few weeks later results in the presence of vegetation.
                                   Two factors were taken into account for the selection of observations: (1) the ob-
                              servation date and (2) the relative occurrences of the land cover types in the reference
                              dataset. First, most observations occurred in the period of October–January, which is
                              also the period that most catch crops are required as a cover, and thus, the period that
                              is under study here. Observations outside this period were compared with the crop
                              calendar of the observed crop to determine if this crop can be on the field at the time of
                              the field visit. Second, the observation could not be used if a winter crop type was only
                              observed once. For model training and validation, reference data are split into separate
                              training and validation sets stratified by crop species. This split requires a minimum of
                              two observations per crop species. Also, one winter crop type, ‘mixture of catch crops’,
                              was about ten times more abundant than the second most represented type. However,
                              as a heavily unbalanced dataset is not beneficial for model training, only a subset of the
                              parcels of this type was retained in the final reference dataset. Parcel selection within
                              the most prevalent crop type depended on two principles: (1) parcels with a larger area
                              were favored because it facilitates the next step of downloading the time series for these
                              parcels, as it results in more usable pixels per field, and (2) only parcels with an agree-
                              ment between the declared crop and observed crop (both were ‘mixture of catch crops’)
                              were retained to maximize the reliability of the remaining training data. Observations of
                              permanent land cover types, like pastures and greenhouses, were removed as no winter
                              crops were found on these fields.
                                   In addition to this, the field observation labels were compared with the corresponding
                              daily NDVI time series. Because field observations are only a snapshot at a certain point
                              in time and we worked with time series as input to the model, there was sometimes a
                              disparity between the label and the time series. For example, if a field observation in
                              October indicated that there was no catch crop present, the time series could still indicate a
                              green-up of the field from November onwards. Therefore, we decided to trust the ground
                              truth label unless the daily NDVI time series clearly disproved it. A crop observation was
                              not used if, for the entire period of October–December, the NDVI value surpassed 0.35.
                              Similarly, a bare soil observation was not used if, for the entire period of October–December,
                              the NDVI value was higher than 0.35. We chose December as the endpoint for this because,
                              in our application, there should still be time to visit the field after making a model prediction.
                              Therefore, we trained the model on the examples that we wanted to detect, i.e., the field
                              that contained a catch crop before the end of December, so that field visits can still be made
                              in January.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                                                     22 of 26



                                     Appendix B

                                     Table A1. Selected hyperparameters for all models per dataset.

                                                                                            Selected Values
   Model       Hyperparameters      Search Space
                                                                                             (per Dataset)
                                                              S1 + 2                   S1 + 2                 S1 + 2                    S1 + 2
                                                      fAPAR + FCover + NDVI            NDVI           fAPAR + FCover + NDVI             NDVI
                                                              Daily                    Daily                 Dekadal                   Dekadal
     RF          n_estimators       200, 300, 400,              500                      400                      400                     500
                                         500
     TSF         n_estimators       200, 300, 400,          300-400-200                  300                  400-200-300                 500
                 min_interval            500                   3-3-3                      3                      9-3-5                     5
                                      3, 5, 7, 9
    CNN           batch_size         8, 16, 32, 64              32                        32                       32                     64
                 learning rate        0.001–0.1                0.042                    0.042                    0.062                   0.022
                 num_epochs         15, 20, 25, 30              20                        20                       25                     15
                   dropout           0.1, 0.2, 0.3,             0.1                      0.1                      0.1                     0.1
                  kernel_size             0.4                    5                        5                        9                       7
                     stride            3, 5, 7, 9                2                        2                        3                       1
                                       1, 2, 3, 5
                                                              S1 + 2                    S2                        S2                     S2
                                                              NDVI                     NDVI                    9 Bands                 9 Norm
                                                             Monthly                  Dekadal                  Dekadal                 Dekadal
     RF          n_estimators       200, 300, 400,              200                      400                      300                     500
                                         500
     TSF         n_estimators       200, 300, 400,              500                      400                  200-300-500-            400-500-200-
                 min_interval            500                    3*                        3                   200-400-200-            200-500-300-
                                      3, 5, 7, 9                                                              200-500-200             500-400-400
                                                                                                                 3-3-3 *                 3-3-3 *
                                                                                                                  3-3-3                   3-3-3
                                                                                                                  3-3-3                   3-3-3
    CNN            batch_size      8, 16, 32, 64                64                        64                       64                     64
                 learning rate      0.001–0.1                  0.022                    0.022                    0.022                   0.022
                 num_epochs       15, 20, 25, 30                15                       15                       15                      15
                    dropout        0.1, 0.2, 0.3,               0.1                      0.1                      0.1                     0.1
                  kernel_size           0.4                      7                         7                        7                      7
Remote Sens. 2024, 16,stride         3, 5, 7, 9
                       x FOR PEER REVIEW                         1                        1                        1                       1         23 of 26
                                     1, 2, 3, 5
                                     * In the case of the dataset with nine bands from Sentinel-2, only the number of estimators was optimized because
                                     the search space was too big when the minimum interval length was included (monthly min interval was also not
                                     optimized—too
                                      Appendix Cshort).
                                     Appendix C




                                  (A) Grass group                                                    (B) Leafy group

                                     Figure A1. Cont.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                                           23 of 26
                                (A) Grass group                                                 (B) Leafy group




                                 (C) Mixtures                                                  (D) Winter cereals




                                (E) Other crops                                           (F) Absence of winter crop
                                   FigureA1.
                                  Figure       Comparison
                                           A1.Comparison      thethe
                                                           of of      temporal
                                                                   temporal      profiles
                                                                              profiles    (NDVI,
                                                                                       (NDVI,      1-day
                                                                                               1-day     interval)
                                                                                                     interval)       ofdifferent
                                                                                                                of the  the different  classification
                                                                                                                                 classification
                                   groupsbetween
                                  groups    between  the
                                                   the   training
                                                       training  datadata  (2016–2021)
                                                                        (2016–2021)  andand   the validation
                                                                                          the validation data data   (2022).
                                                                                                               (2022).       Shadowing
                                                                                                                        Shadowing           indicates
                                                                                                                                     indicates
                                  the   standard
                                   thestandard   deviation
                                               deviation on on
                                                             eacheach   averaged
                                                                   averaged        profile.
                                                                              profile.      The group
                                                                                       The group        ‘Legumes’
                                                                                                  ‘Legumes’  is not visualized   because because
                                                                                                                      is not visualized   of its   of
                                   its absence in the validation    dataset
                                  absence in the validation dataset (2022).  (2022).

References
References
1.
1.   Cameron, K.C.;
     Cameron,         Di,H.J.;
                K.C.; Di, H.J.;Moir,   J.L.Nitrogen
                                Moir,J.L.   NitrogenLosses from
                                                      Losses  from   Soil/Plant
                                                                 thethe         System:
                                                                        Soil/Plant      A Review.
                                                                                   System:        Ann.Ann.
                                                                                                       Appl.Appl.
                                                                                           A Review.         Biol. Biol. 162, 145–173.
                                                                                                                   2013,2013, 162, 145–173.
     [CrossRef]
     https://doi.org/10.1111/aab.12014.
2.    Fendrich, A.N.; Matthews, F.; Van Eynde, E.; Carozzi, M.; Li, Z.; d’Andrimont, R.; Lugato, E.; Martin, P.; Ciais, P.; Panagos, P.
      From Regional to Parcel Scale: A High-Resolution Map of Cover Crops across Europe Combining Satellite Data with Statistical
      Surveys. Sci. Total Environ. 2023, 873, 162300. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
3.    Schulz, C.; Holtgrave, A.-K.; Kleinschmit, B. Large-Scale Winter Catch Crop Monitoring with Sentinel-2 Time Series and Machine
      Learning–An Alternative to on-Site Controls? Comput. Electron. Agric. 2021, 186, 106173. [CrossRef]
4.    Nouri, A.; Lukas, S.; Singh, S.; Singh, S.; Machado, S. When Do Cover Crops Reduce Nitrate Leaching? A Global Meta-Analysis.
      Glob. Chang. Biol. 2022, 28, 4736–4749. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
5.    Blanco-Canqui, H. Cover Crops and Water Quality. Agron. J. 2018, 110, 1633–1647. [CrossRef]
6.    Sitokonstantinou, V.; Papoutsis, I.; Kontoes, C.; Lafarga Arnal, A.; Armesto Andrés, A.P.; Garraza Zurbano, J.A. Scalable Parcel-
      Based Crop Identification Scheme Using Sentinel-2 Data Time-Series for the Monitoring of the Common Agricultural Policy.
      Remote Sens. 2018, 10, 911. [CrossRef]
7.    Barnes, M.L.; Yoder, L.; Khodaee, M. Detecting Winter Cover Crops and Crop Residues in the Midwest US Using Machine
      Learning Classification of Thermal and Optical Imagery. Remote Sens. 2021, 13, 1998. [CrossRef]
8.    Jennewein, J.S.; Lamb, B.T.; Hively, W.D.; Thieme, A.; Thapa, R.; Goldsmith, A.; Mirsky, S.B. Integration of Satellite-Based Optical
      and Synthetic Aperture Radar Imagery to Estimate Winter Cover Crop Performance in Cereal Grasses. Remote Sens. 2022, 14, 2077.
      [CrossRef]
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                                            24 of 26



9.    Fan, X.; Vrieling, A.; Muller, B.; Nelson, A. Winter Cover Crops in Dutch Maize Fields: Variability in Quality and Its Drivers
      Assessed from Multi-Temporal Sentinel-2 Imagery. Int. J. Appl. Earth Obs. Geoinf. 2020, 91, 102139. [CrossRef]
10.   Thieme, A.; Yadav, S.; Oddo, P.C.; Fitz, J.M.; McCartney, S.; King, L.; Keppler, J.; McCarty, G.W.; Hively, W.D. Using NASA Earth
      Observations and Google Earth Engine to Map Winter Cover Crop Conservation Performance in the Chesapeake Bay Watershed.
      Remote Sens. Environ. 2020, 248, 111943. [CrossRef]
11.   Goffart, D.; Curnel, Y.; Planchon, V.; Goffart, J.-P.; Defourny, P. Field-Scale Assessment of Belgian Winter Cover Crops Biomass
      Based on Sentinel-2 Data. Eur. J. Agron. 2021, 126, 126278. [CrossRef]
12.   Kc, K.; Zhao, K.; Romanko, M.; Khanal, S. Assessment of the Spatial and Temporal Patterns of Cover Crops Using Remote Sensing.
      Remote Sens. 2021, 13, 2689. [CrossRef]
13.   Pan, L.; Xia, H.; Zhao, X.; Guo, Y.; Qin, Y. Mapping Winter Crops Using a Phenology Algorithm, Time-Series Sentinel-2 and
      Landsat-7/8 Images, and Google Earth Engine. Remote Sens. 2021, 13, 2510. [CrossRef]
14.   Cai, Y.; Guan, K.; Peng, J.; Wang, S.; Seifert, C.; Wardlow, B.; Li, Z. A High-Performance and in-Season Classification System of
      Field-Level Crop Types Using Time-Series Landsat Data and a Machine Learning Approach. Remote Sens. Environ. 2018, 210,
      35–47. [CrossRef]
15.   Zhong, L.; Hu, L.; Zhou, H. Deep Learning Based Multi-Temporal Crop Classification. Remote Sens. Environ. 2019, 221, 430–443.
      [CrossRef]
16.   Rußwurm, M.; Körner, M. Multi-Temporal Land Cover Classification with Sequential Recurrent Encoders. ISPRS Int. J. Geo-Inf.
      2018, 7, 129. [CrossRef]
17.   Pelletier, C.; Webb, G.I.; Petitjean, F. Temporal Convolutional Neural Network for the Classification of Satellite Image Time Series.
      Remote Sens. 2019, 11, 523. [CrossRef]
18.   Van Tricht, K.; Gobin, A.; Gilliams, S.; Piccard, I. Synergistic Use of Radar Sentinel-1 and Optical Sentinel-2 Imagery for Crop
      Mapping: A Case Study for Belgium. Remote Sens. 2018, 10, 1642. [CrossRef]
19.   Yi, Z.; Jia, L.; Chen, Q.; Jiang, M.; Zhou, D.; Zeng, Y. Early-Season Crop Identification in the Shiyang River Basin Using a Deep
      Learning Algorithm and Time-Series Sentinel-2 Data. Remote Sens. 2022, 14, 5625. [CrossRef]
20.   Belgiu, M.; Drăguţ, L. Random Forest in Remote Sensing: A Review of Applications and Future Directions. ISPRS J. Photogramm.
      Remote Sens. 2016, 114, 24–31. [CrossRef]
21.   Mellor, A.; Boukir, S.; Haywood, A.; Jones, S. Exploring Issues of Training Data Imbalance and Mislabelling on Random Forest
      Performance for Large Area Land Cover Classification Using the Ensemble Margin. ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens. 2015, 105,
      155–168. [CrossRef]
22.   Deng, H.; Runger, G.; Tuv, E.; Vladimir, M. A Time Series Forest for Classification and Feature Extraction. Inf. Sci. 2013, 239,
      142–153. [CrossRef]
23.   Rußwurm, M.; Körner, M. Self-Attention for Raw Optical Satellite Time Series Classification. ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens.
      2020, 169, 421–435. [CrossRef]
24.   Ahmed, Z.; Nalley, L.; Brye, K.; Steven Green, V.; Popp, M.; Shew, A.M.; Connor, L. Winter-Time Cover Crop Identification: A
      Remote Sensing-Based Methodological Framework for New and Rapid Data Generation. Int. J. Appl. Earth Obs. Geoinf. 2023,
      125, 103564. [CrossRef]
25.   Henits, L.; Szerletics, Á.; Szokol, D.; Szlovák, G.; Gojdár, E.; Zlinszky, A. Sentinel-2 Enables Nationwide Monitoring of Single
      Area Payment Scheme and Greening Agricultural Subsidies in Hungary. Remote Sens. 2022, 14, 3917. [CrossRef]
26.   Tao, Y.; You, F. Prediction of Cover Crop Adoption through Machine Learning Models Using Satellite-Derived Data. IFAC-
      PapersOnLine 2019, 52, 137–142. [CrossRef]
27.   Simon Sanchez, A.-M.; Gonzalez-Piqueras, J.; de la Ossa, L.; Calera, A. Convolutional Neural Networks for Agricultural Land
      Use Classification from Sentinel-2 Image Time Series. Remote Sens. 2022, 14, 5373. [CrossRef]
28.   Račič, M.; Oštir, K.; Zupanc, A.; Čehovin Zajc, L. Multi-Year Time Series Transfer Learning: Application of Early Crop Classification.
      Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 270. [CrossRef]
29.   Weilandt, F.; Behling, R.; Goncalves, R.; Madadi, A.; Richter, L.; Sanona, T.; Spengler, D.; Welsch, J. Early Crop Classification via
      Multi-Modal Satellite Data Fusion and Temporal Attention. Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 799. [CrossRef]
30.   Pandžić, M.; Pavlović, D.; Matavulj, P.; Brdar, S.; Marko, O.; Crnojević, V.; Kilibarda, M. Interseasonal Transfer Learning for Crop
      Mapping Using Sentinel-1 Data. Int. J. Appl. Earth Obs. Geoinf. 2024, 128, 103718. [CrossRef]
31.   Lin, C.; Zhong, L.; Song, X.-P.; Dong, J.; Lobell, D.B.; Jin, Z. Early- and in-Season Crop Type Mapping without Current-Year
      Ground Truth: Generating Labels from Historical Information via a Topology-Based Approach. Remote Sens. Environ. 2022,
      274, 112994. [CrossRef]
32.   Beck, H.E.; Zimmermann, N.E.; McVicar, T.R.; Vergopolan, N.; Berg, A.; Wood, E.F. Present and Future Köppen-Geiger Climate
      Classification Maps at 1-Km Resolution. Sci. Data 2018, 5, 180214. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
33.   Statistics Flanders Landbouwareaal. Available online: https://www.vlaanderen.be/statistiek-vlaanderen/landbouw-en-visserij/
      landbouwareaal (accessed on 18 July 2024).
34.   Hermans, I.; Elsen, A.; Bries, J. Groenbemesters En Nitraatresidu; Bodemkundige Dienst van België vzw: Heverlee, Belgium, 2010;
      p. 44.
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                                           25 of 26



35.   Vandendriessche, H.; Vanongeval, L.; Smeets, E.; Geypens, M. Monitoring of N-Uptake by Green Manures and of the Influence
      of N-Release on N-Availability, Production and Quality of Sugar Beet. In Progress in Nitrogen Cycling Studies: Proceedings of the
      8th Nitrogen Workshop Held at the University of Ghent, 5–8 September 1994; Van Cleemput, O., Hofman, G., Vermoesen, A., Eds.;
      Developments in Plant and Soil Sciences; Springer: Dordrecht, The Netherlands, 1996; pp. 147–151; ISBN 978-94-011-5450-5.
36.   EPPO. EPPO Global Database. 2024. Available online: https://gd.eppo.int/ (accessed on 18 July 2024).
37.   Waśniewski, A.; Hościło, A.; Chmielewska, M. Can a Hierarchical Classification of Sentinel-2 Data Improve Land Cover Mapping?
      Remote Sens. 2022, 14, 989. [CrossRef]
38.   Xie, G.; Niculescu, S. Mapping Crop Types Using Sentinel-2 Data Machine Learning and Monitoring Crop Phenology with
      Sentinel-1 Backscatter Time Series in Pays de Brest, Brittany, France. Remote Sens. 2022, 14, 4437. [CrossRef]
39.   Turkoglu, M.O.; D’Aronco, S.; Perich, G.; Liebisch, F.; Streit, C.; Schindler, K.; Wegner, J.D. Crop Mapping from Image Time Series:
      Deep Learning with Multi-Scale Label Hierarchies. Remote Sens. Environ. 2021, 264, 112603. [CrossRef]
40.   European Space Agency. S2 Mission. Available online: https://sentiwiki.copernicus.eu/web/s2-mission (accessed on 18 July 2024).
41.   Biesemans, J. Supporting Land and Infrastructure Management with CropSAR. Available online: https://vito.be/en/news/
      supporting-land-and-infrastructure-management-cropsar (accessed on 18 July 2024).
42.   Van Tricht, K. Looking Through the Clouds to Improve Crop Monitoring! Available online: https://blog.vito.be/remotesensing/
      cropsar2019 (accessed on 18 July 2024).
43.   Piccard, I.; Swinnen, E.; Keukelaere, L.D.; Kerchove, R.V.D.; Eerens, H. Terrascope Sentinel-2 Algorithm Theoretical Base
      Document S2—NDVI & BIOPAR—V102. 2020. Available online: https://tinyurl.com/4mru98y5 (accessed on 12 April 2023).
44.   Schramm, M.; Pebesma, E.; Milenković, M.; Foresta, L.; Dries, J.; Jacob, A.; Wagner, W.; Mohr, M.; Neteler, M.; Kadunc, M.; et al.
      The openEO API–Harmonising the Use of Earth Observation Cloud Services Using Virtual Data Cube Functionalities. Remote
      Sens. 2021, 13, 1125. [CrossRef]
45.   Breiman, L. Random Forests. Mach. Learn. 2001, 45, 5–32. [CrossRef]
46.   Pedregosa, F.; Varoquaux, G.; Gramfort, A.; Michel, V.; Thirion, B.; Grisel, O.; Blondel, M.; Prettenhofer, P.; Weiss, R.; Dubourg, V.;
      et al. Scikit-Learn: Machine Learning in Python. J. Mach. Learn. Res. 2011, 12, 2825–2830.
47.   van Rossum, G. Python Reference Manual; Centrum voor Wiskunde en Informatica: Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 1995.
48.   Király, F.; Löning, M.; Bagnall, T.; Middlehurst, M.; Ray, A.; Ganesh, S.; Walter, M.; Oastler, G.; Lines, J.; ViktorKaz; et al.
      sktime/sktime. 2020. Available online: https://zenodo.org/records/14337818 (accessed on 18 July 2024).
49.   Löning, M.; Bagnall, A.; Ganesh, S.; Kazakov, V. Sktime: A Unified Interface for Machine Learning with Time Series. arXiv 2019,
      arXiv:1909.07872.
50.   Kattenborn, T.; Leitloff, J.; Schiefer, F.; Hinz, S. Review on Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) in Vegetation Remote Sensing.
      ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens. 2021, 173, 24–49. [CrossRef]
51.   Ismail Fawaz, H.; Forestier, G.; Weber, J.; Idoumghar, L.; Muller, P.-A. Deep Learning for Time Series Classification: A Review.
      Data Min. Knowl. Discov. 2019, 33, 917–963. [CrossRef]
52.   LeCun, Y.; Bengio, Y.; Hinton, G. Deep Learning. Nature. 2015, 521, 436–444. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
53.   Paszke, A.; Gross, S.; Massa, F.; Lerer, A.; Bradbury, J.; Chanan, G.; Killeen, T.; Lin, Z.; Gimelshein, N.; Antiga, L.; et al. PyTorch:
      An Imperative Style, High-Performance Deep Learning Library. Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst. 2019, 32, 8024–8035.
54.   Chollet, F. Deep Learning with Python; Manning Publications Co.: Shelter Island, NY, USA, 2018; ISBN 978-1-61729-443-3.
55.   Liaw, R.; Liang, E.; Nishihara, R.; Moritz, P.; Gonzalez, J.E.; Stoica, I. Tune: A Research Platform for Distributed Model Selection
      and Training. arXiv 2018, arXiv:1807.05118.
56.   Bagnall, A.; Lines, J.; Bostrom, A.; Large, J.; Keogh, E. The Great Time Series Classification Bake off: A Review and Experimental
      Evaluation of Recent Algorithmic Advances. Data Min. Knowl. Discov. 2017, 31, 606–660. [CrossRef]
57.   Pham, V.-D.; Tetteh, G.; Thiel, F.; Erasmi, S.; Schwieder, M.; Frantz, D.; Van Der Linden, S. Temporally Transferable Crop Mapping
      with Temporal Encoding and Deep Learning Augmentations. Int. J. Appl. Earth Obs. Geoinf. 2024, 129, 103867. [CrossRef]
58.   Holzhauser, K.; Räbiger, T.; Rose, T.; Kage, H.; Kühling, I. Estimation of Biomass and N Uptake in Different Winter Cover Crops
      from UAV-Based Multispectral Canopy Reflectance Data. Remote Sens. 2022, 14, 4525. [CrossRef]
59.   Wang, X.; Blesh, J.; Rao, P.; Paliwal, A.; Umashaanker, M.; Jain, M. Mapping Cover Crop Species in Southeastern Michigan Using
      Sentinel-2 Satellite Data and Google Earth Engine. Front. Artif. Intell. 2023, 6, 1035502. [CrossRef]
60.   Huang, X.; Huang, J.; Li, X.; Shen, Q.; Chen, Z. Early Mapping of Winter Wheat in Henan Province of China Using Time Series of
      Sentinel-2 Data. GISci. Remote Sens. 2022, 59, 1534–1549. [CrossRef]
61.   Hughes, G. On the Mean Accuracy of Statistical Pattern Recognizers. IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory 1968, 14, 55–63. [CrossRef]
62.   Orynbaikyzy, A.; Gessner, U.; Conrad, C. Crop Type Classification Using a Combination of Optical and Radar Remote Sensing
      Data: A Review. Int. J. Remote Sens. 2019, 40, 6553–6595. [CrossRef]
63.   Selvaraj, S.; Bargiel, D.; Htitiou, A.; Gerighausen, H. Analyzing Temporal Characteristics of Winter Catch Crops Using Sentinel-1
      Time Series. Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 3737. [CrossRef]
64.   Royal Meteorological Institute. Klimatologisch Jaaroverzicht 2021. Available online: https://www.meteo.be/resources/
      climatology/pdf/klimatologisch_jaaroverzicht_2021.pdf (accessed on 17 July 2024).
65.   Royal Meteorological Institute. Klimatologisch Jaaroverzicht 2022. Available online: https://www.meteo.be/resources/
      climatology/pdf/klimatologisch_jaaroverzicht_2022.pdf (accessed on 17 July 2024).
Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 4620                                                                                                       26 of 26



66.   Vaswani, A.; Shazeer, N.; Parmar, N.; Uszkoreit, J.; Jones, L.; Gomez, A.N.; Kaiser, Ł.U.; Polosukhin, I. Attention Is All You Need.
      In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems; Curran Associates, Inc.: Vancouver, BC, Canada, 2017; Volume 30.
67.   Ma, Y.; Chen, S.; Ermon, S.; Lobell, D.B. Transfer Learning in Environmental Remote Sensing. Remote Sens. Environ. 2024,
      301, 113924. [CrossRef]
68.   Tseng, G.; Cartuyvels, R.; Zvonkov, I.; Purohit, M.; Rolnick, D.; Kerner, H. Lightweight, Pre-Trained Transformers for Remote
      Sensing Timeseries. arXiv 2024, arXiv:2304.14065.

Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
