                                         Comparing Machine Learning Techniques for Alfalfa
                                                    Biomass Yield Prediction

                                          Jonathan M. Vance∗, 1 , Christopher D. Whitmire†, 2 , Hend K. Rasheed‡, 2 , Christian Adkins§, 1 , Ali
                                                        Missaoui¶, 3 , Khaled M. Rasheedk, 1, 2 , and Frederick W. Maier∗∗ ,2
arXiv:2210.11226v1 [cs.LG] 20 Oct 2022




                                          1
                                           Department of Computer Science, University of Georgia, 415 Boyd Graduate Studies, 200 D. W.
                                                                           Brooks Drive, Athens, GA 30602, USA
                                         2
                                           Institute for Artificial Intelligence, University of Georgia, 515 Boyd Graduate Studies, 200 D. W.
                                                                           Brooks Drive, Athens, GA 30602, USA
                                             3
                                               Department of Crop and Soil Sciences, Institute of Plant Breeding Genetics and Genomics,
                                                      University of Georgia, 4317 Miller Plant Science, Athens, GA 30602, USA




                                         Keywords: alfalfa; feature selection; biomass; precision agriculture; yield prediction; climate
                                         change


                                         Submission Type: Regular Research Paper

                                                                                         Abstract
                                                     The alfalfa crop is globally important as livestock feed, so highly efficient plant-
                                                     ing and harvesting could benefit many industries, especially as the global cli-
                                                     mate changes and traditional methods become less accurate. Recent work using
                                                     machine learning (ML) to predict yields for alfalfa and other crops has shown
                                                     promise. Previous efforts used remote sensing, weather, planting, and soil data
                                                     to train machine learning models for yield prediction. However, while remote
                                                     sensing works well, the models require large amounts of data and cannot make
                                                     predictions until the harvesting season begins. Using weather and planting data
                                                     from alfalfa variety trials in Kentucky and Georgia, our previous work compared
                                                     feature selection techniques to find the best technique and best feature set. In
                                                     this work, we trained a variety of machine learning models, using cross valida-
                                                     tion for hyperparameter optimization, to predict biomass yields, and we showed
                                                     better accuracy than similar work that employed more complex techniques. Our
                                                     best individual model was a random forest with a mean absolute error of 0.081
                                                     tons/acre and R2 of 0.941. Next, we expanded this dataset to include Wiscon-
                                                     sin and Mississippi, and we repeated our experiments, obtaining a higher best R2
                                                     of 0.982 with a regression tree. We then isolated our testing datasets by state to
                                                     explore this problem’s eligibility for domain adaptation (DA), as we trained on
                                              ∗
                                                 jmvance@uga.edu
                                               †
                                                 cwhitmire@berry.edu
                                               ‡
                                                 hend.rasheed25@uga.edu
                                               §
                                                 caadkins@uga.edu
                                               ¶
                                                 cssamm@uga.edu
                                               k
                                                 khaled@uga.edu (Contact Author)
                                              ∗∗
                                                 fmaier@uga.edu


                                         Preprint. Under review.
         multiple source states and tested on one target state. This Trivial DA (TDA) ap-
         proach leaves plenty of room for improvement through exploring more complex
         DA techniques in forthcoming work.



1 Introduction

With the intent of directing world leaders toward solving some of the world’s biggest problems, the
United Nations recently developed a collection of 17 goals and 169 targets. The hope is that the
world will reach these goals by the year 2030 [Nations, 2015]. However, it is the opinion of the
Copenhagen Consensus Center (CCC), a think tank, that appropriately prioritizing these goals will
increase the likelihood that the world will reach them [Center, 2015]. The CCC has performed a
cost-benefit analysis on all these targets and ranked them accordingly. One of their findings was
that increasing research and development into maximizing global crop yields would be one of the
most cost-effective ways of achieving the UN’s goals [Rosegrant et al., 2018]. Specifically, every $1
spent on this kind of R&D would result in $34 worth of benefit worldwide. [Lomborg, 2015] One
possible way to increase yields is to improve agricultural planning, which would help ensure that
there are sufficient yields of key crops. At the start of every season, agricultural planners need to
estimate the yields of different agricultural plans [Frausto-Solis et al., 2009]. Often, farmers rely on
their own personal experiences of history to predict what their yields will be, but this can result in
limited accuracy [Ruß, 2009]. Given that crop yields vary spatially and temporally, and are sensitive
to varying conditions like weather, other prediction methods should be investigated. The USDA,
with its National Agricultural Statistics Service branch, makes monthly forecasts of crop yields in
the United States. It does this by conducting two surveys, a farm operator survey and an objective
survey. The farm operator survey is done by calling farmers at random and asking them what they
think their predicted yield for the next month will be. The objective survey involves an investiga-
tor going out and surveying random fields and recording data on the output of those fields. The
findings of these surveys are compared to previous historical data to confirm that the findings are
consistent with previous harvests with similar conditions. The final predicted yields then come from
the results of these surveys [Center, 2018][Johnson, 2014]. The findings of this methodology, when
compared to the ground truth, have had very low errors [You et al., 2017][Center, 2018]. However,
this process is very resource intensive. The farm operator survey is done primarily over the phone,
and the objective survey requires measurements to be taken in person at hundreds of farms every
month [Center, 2018][Johnson, 2014]. An alternative approach is to use remote sensing (RS) data.
RS techniques use images achieved primarily from aircraft of satellites, and these images record
spectral, spatial, and temporal information [Chlingaryan et al., 2018]. Mathematical operations can
be performed on these images to form vegetation indices (VIs), which can be used as inputs into
machine learning algorithms [Xue and Su, 2017]. Recent work has been done to use VIs to predict
crop yield. You et al., had great success at predicting county level soybean yield in the United States
using remote sensing data as input for a convolutional neural network (CNN) and a long short-term
memory (LSTM) model, both with a Gaussian Process component [You et al., 2017]. Panda, Ames,
& Panigrahi used several different VIs as an input to a neural network (NN) to predict corn yield
[Panda et al., 2010]. Johnson did something similar but used regression trees to predict both corn and
soybean yield [Johnson, 2014]. However, despite these successes, there are difficulties with building
machine learning models based on remote sensing data. This is because using remote sensing data
depends on the processing of large amounts of data across different platforms [Chlingaryan et al.,
2018]. These models also cannot make a prediction unless there are images available for input,
which means that this model cannot begin making predictions until the growing season has started
[Cunha et al., 2018]. Xue and Su also compared over one hundred different vegetation indices and
found that no VI is universally better than the others. Each is more suitable to certain situations,
and each has their own limitations [Xue and Su, 2017]. This means that it may be difficult to know
the optimal VI for each case. Weather, spatial, and soil features have also been used to train ma-
chine learning models to predict crop yield [González Sánchez et al., 2014][Ayoubi and Sahrawat,
2011][Jeong et al., 2016]. These kinds of data also require less processing than remote sensing data
and can be used to make predictions before the season starts. They also have the potential to use
weather forecasting results to make predictions before the season begins, making it more convenient
for planning purposes than using remote sensing data. Similarly, the current paper uses weather and
planting data to develop a variety of machine learning models and compares the results.

                                                   2
The current work builds further on the previous work by Whitmire et al. by comparing biomass
yield prediction experiment results among various ML models, as we explore elements of domain
adaptation (DA) to further improve our application pipeline [Whitmire et al., 2021]. We used data
from different source regions to train models which then predict crop yields in a specific target
region. To this end, we achieve three major contributions:

       • Provide results from ML experiments comparing various models, showing our weather-
         based ML approach to be promising
       • Broadly expand the alfalfa ML training dataset, adding curated crop yield and weather data
         from three additional states
       • Discover positive results for seemingly disparate sources and targets, such as source: Wis-
         consin, target: Georgia

In Section II, we discuss related research and topics relevant to this project. Section III provides
details about our methods as well as the collection and characteristics of the data. Experiment setups
and results are discussed in Section IV, Section V contains conclusions, and Section VI outlines
directions of future work.


2 Related Work

2.1 Background

This project began as C. Whitmire”s master”s thesis, with help from H. Rasheed, under the direction
of K. Rasheed et al. at the University of Georgia [Whitmire, 2019]. They aggregated 771 records
of alfalfa biomass yield data from Georgia and Kentucky, and they correlated this with weather
data from the same time periods; specific weather features include the same ones in the current
work, harvested from the NOAA as well as other sources. By experimenting with feature selection
techniques, they found that the most salient features were Julian day of harvest, temperature, num-
ber of days since the crop was sown, and cumulative rainfall and solar radiation since last harvest
[Whitmire et al., 2021]. They split the data into train, test, and validation sets to train a neural net-
work (NN), random forest (RF), regression tree (RT), Bayesian Ridge Regression, linear regression,
k-nearest neighbors (KNN), and support vector machine (SVM) models to predict yields in the test
set. Using k-fold cross-validation, they performed grid searches to determine which model config-
urations achieved the highest accuracies [Whitmire et al., 2021]. Our results approach the accuracy
of similar work by You et al. at Stanford University [You et al., 2017], even though You’s datasets
are much larger and collected by more sophisticated methods involving remote sensors, which en-
ables the application of much deeper and more complex neural networks. Overall, our results were
promising enough to motivate us to explore domain adaptation (DA), where models are trained using
one mathematically augmented source dataset to predict a distinct target dataset. We explore DA by
attempting a trivial DA (TDA) approach, where we train on source data from our original dataset
plus three new U.S. States, and we set the target dataset as GA.
As the core problem with successfully predicting crop yields using machine learning is scarcity of
data, much of the related works focus on techniques designed to accumulate larger datasets. Like
You, Xue and Su at Northwest A&F University in China highlight the benefits of remote sensor
(RS) technology, such as image data collected by unmanned aerial vehicles (AEVs) [Xue and Su,
2017]. Xue’s work reviews over 100 vegetation indices (VIs), which are assorted algorithms with
no mathematical unifying basis that are customized to measure important characteristics used in
crop prediction and related applications.
Our work most closely resembles research applying deep learning (DL) to yield forecasting soy-
bean and maize by Oliveira et al. at IBM Research [Oliveira et al., 2018]. Like ours, that work
applies a very simple method of manual yield data collection instead of developing VIs or using
RS technology. On the other hand, their work forecasts future yields, while the current work only
predicts known yields. Oliveira’s abundance of over 50,000 datapoints opens that work to the use
of a deep neural network (DNN), which we would like to try in future work. However, the current
work achieves better R2 scores that fall comfortably in the 0.8 to 0.9+ range, while Oliveira reports
R2 scores ranging from .55 to .75 [Oliveira et al., 2018, Whitmire, 2019].

                                                   3
2.2 Transfer Learning and Domain Adaptation
Transfer learning is an area of research focused on improving learning in a new task through the
transfer of knowledge from a related task that has already been learned. This is in contrast with
most machine learning algorithms which are designed to address single tasks [Torrey and Shavlik,
2010]. While useful in many research problems, transfer learning as a whole does not directly apply
to this work. The task of predicting alfalfa yield remains the same; what changes is the region
that data comes from. These different regions may have significant differences in the underlying
distributions of feature values, with varying temperature ranges and standard levels of rainfall for
example.
Thus, a subcategory of transfer learning known as domain adaptation (DA) is more potentially appli-
cable to our research. DA uses data from a source with one distribution to predict target values in a
test domain with a different distribution [Jiang, 2008]. A large amount of research has utilized DA in
the area of sequence labeling [Daumé III, 2009]. In the context of agriculture, image classification
is a popular technique for studying aspects such as crop yield [Bellocchio et al., 2020]. But such
methods are very expensive and time consuming, are not feasible in all locations, and do not benefit
from existing data collection that has been carried out over the years. Our work aims to incorporate
DA in order to coalesce such widespread numerical data and achieve meaningful prediction accuracy
without relying on expensive image collection and analysis techniques.

3 Approach
3.1 ML Approach
We used the Python programming language throughout this research [Foundation, 2021]. Specif-
ically, Python as provided within the Anaconda environment was used [Distribution, 2021]. The
following packages were used: Pandas for data cleaning and preparation [McKinney et al., 2010],
matplotlib [Hunter, 2007] and seaborn [Waskom et al., 2022 (Date accessed: 2021-03-11] for visu-
alizations, sci-kit learn to make and evaluate the machine learning models [Pedregosa et al., 2011],
and finally, numpy for general mathematical operations [Oliphant, 2006][Van Der Walt et al., 2011].
The features used in training our machine learning models were the Julian day of the harvest, the
number of days between the harvest and the sown date of the crop, the cumulative solar radiation
since the previous harvest, temperature, and the cumulative rainfall since the last harvest. The
cumulative solar radiation and rainfall values were found by summing daily values. All the data
sources for the previous and current work are presented in Appendix A. Alfalfa harvest data was
obtained from variety trials conducted by the University of Georgia (UGA) and University of Ken-
tucky (UKY) for our first round of experiments. We added data from Pennsylvania (PA), Wisconsin
(WI), and Mississippi (MS) for the second round. These reports detail the yield in tons per acre of
multiple varieties of alfalfa. UGA’s data came from Athens and Tifton, GA from the years 2008 to
2010 where harvests occur from April to December. UKY’s trials occur in Lexington, KY ranging
from 2013 to 2018 and contain data from the months of May through September. These variety trials
reported multiple cut dates per year.
We carefully curated daily weather data for each location. Data for Tifton and Watkinsville, which is
about 13 miles from Athens, GA, was retrieved from the Georgia Automated environmental network.
Similar data was found for Versailles, which is nearby Lexington, KY, from the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).
Also, all the data points that had harvest dates with the same year as the sown date were filtered
out. Similarly, the first harvest of every season was removed because the amount of time since the
previous harvest would be much larger for this harvest relative to subsequent harvests. After this
cleaning process, we ended up with 770 datapoints total.
Before training the models, all of the features were normalized according to the formula
                                                 xold − xmean
                                        xnew =
                                                     xSDev

where
                                                xold

                                                  4
was the original value of the feature,
                                                xmean
is the average value of the features, and
                                                xSDev
is the standard deviation of the values for that feature. Before training the models in our previous
work, the data was shuffled and split into ten folds to be used for 10-fold cross validation. For each
fold, a machine learning model was initialized. This means that ten models were made for each
method, one model for each fold. Then, within this outer fold, a grid search (Appendix B) with
5-fold cross validation was done to find the hyperparameters for the model that most minimized
the mean absolute error. Once the hyperparameters were found, the machine learning model was
trained on the training set and was evaluated against the testing set. We calculated the mean absolute
error (MAE), R value, and R2 value. The average errors, percent error, R, and R2 value over the
ten iterations was found and recorded, and the results of the best model were also recorded along
with their standard deviations[Whitmire, 2019]. This process was done to train and evaluate the
following methods: regression tree, random forest regression, k-nearest neighbors, support vector
machines, neural networks, Bayesian Ridge regression, and linear regression. Once the results for
each method were obtained, an unpaired two-tailed t test was used to find the p-value between the
average R2 values of each method[Whitmire, 2019]. As shown in Table 1, we achieved our highest
R2 score of 0.941 with our Random Forest model.
We collected data from Mississippi State University (MSU), Penn-State University, and the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin-Madison (UW-Madison). Our MSU data come from Starkville, Poplarville,
Holly Springs, and Newton, MS between March and December from 2012 to 2016. Our Penn-State
data come from Rock Springs and Landisville, PA annually from 2008 to 2019. Our UW-Madison
data come from Lancaster, Marshfield, and Arlington, WS from 2011 to 2016. Some variety trials
report annual biomass yields, while others report multiple cuts per year, and all report sown dates.
Therefore, we decided to annualize all our data for the current approach, since the reverse is not
feasible. We also referred to the NOAA for our PA, WI, and MS weather data, matching to the exact
city where possible, and sometimes to nearby localities with more complete data, as in the previous
approach. While we made every effort to compile the most accurate data possible for this work,
there were cases where we had to make assumptions about some missing weather data from NOAA
to compile our dataset.
We selected the following ML models implemented in SciKit-Learn: random forest (RF), k-nearest
neighbors (KNN), Bayesian ridge regression (BRR), logistic regression (LR), support vector ma-
chine (SVM), and decision tree (DT). During the training phase, we run our models through a
function to select the best hyperparameters using k-fold cross-validation, tuning each model based
on its training data. We used these optimized models as our predictors for each experiment with
each source dataset. As shown in Table 2, our DT model achieved the highest R2 score of 0.982,
and RF achieved an R2 of 0.981 after we added WI and MS data. KNN was a close third place with
R2 = 0.979. We detail the number of datapoints in each state for reference in Table 3.

4 Results

                                    Model       R2    MAE (tons/acre)
                                      DT       0.928       0.091
                                       RF      0.941       0.081
                                     KNN       0.936       0.091
                                     SVM       0.917       0.094
                                      BRR      0.777       0.147
                                       LR      0.723       0.160
Table 1: Our best R2 score overall, training on KY and GA data combined, was 0.941 with RF; RT, KNN, and
SVM showed similar accuracies.

In our first round of experiments, taking the traditional (non-DA) ML approach and training and test-
ing on a combination of KY and GA data, we obtained our highest R2 of 0.941 from the RF model,
while our KNN and DT scores followed closely behind. In the second round, we repeated these
experiments adding PA, WI, and MS data. While these results were also positive, we obtained better

                                                   5
                                 Model       R2       MAE (tons/acre)
                                   DT      0.982            0.240
                                    RF     0.981            0.247
                                  KNN      0.979            0.203
                                  SVM      0.900            0.392
                                  BRR      0.391            1.253
                                   LR      0.416            1.248
              Table 2: Our best R2 score overall after adding WI and MS increased to 0.982.


results when we removed PA, so we present the results from only KY, GA, MS, and WI in Table 2,
which shows our highest R2 increased to 0.982 training on the expanded dataset, using the DT model.
One interesting surprise was that we saw relatively high R2 scores training on combinations that in-
clude WI, whose weather shares less in common with GA weather than MS or KY; WI experiences
much lower winter temperatures and much lower soil moisture, among other differences.
Next, we ran our DA-inspired ML experiments, where we use a trivial form of DA (TDA) in which
we train on data from selected source states and test on data from one specific target state. As
opposed to a true DA technique that mathematically augments the source data to make its distribution
similar to the target data, TDA simply uses the data as-is. Overall, our TDA technique performed
quite poorly, resulting in much lower accuracies than when we combine the states into one table,
and both training and testing sets include multiple states. Though unsuccessful, TDA leaves plenty
of room for improvement by using a true DA technique that augments the training data, and it shows
us that simply training on specific source states and testing on one target state is not likely to yield
good results in this domain.

                                     State No. of Datapoints
                                       PA              577
                                       WI              338
                                      KY                38
                                      MS               184
                                      GA                84
                          Table 3: Datasets per state with number of datapoints



5 Conclusion

We demonstrated that the problem of training ML models on scarce crop yield datasets for one geo-
graphical region can be partially remedied by training those models on data aggregated from other
regions, even when they have disparate climates. We were able to improve on R2 scores obtained
using traditional ML without DA, which is an important first step toward creating more sophisticated
transfer learning and domain adaptation based pipelines, suggesting that further research into using
these techniques is warranted.
In the interest of improving machine learning’s utility in the crucial field of agriculture, we expanded
on previous work that compared feature selection techniques to pick the best features for predicting
alfalfa crop yields. Toward the goal of creating a universal dataset that we can share broadly, we
added virtually exhaustive data for three new U.S. states, for the timeframes available in variety trial
reports. With more datapoints, we were able to interpret data on annual basis, instead of per harvest,
which may be more meaningful.
Such data is widely collected in variety trials run by various universities but not in any uniform,
organized format and not combined with any relevant weather data. This leads to artificial scarcity
of data as different local regions’ data prove challenging to combine. To deal with this scarcity, some
previous works have implemented expensive, highly-specialized techniques for collecting data, such
as using advanced remote sensors at specific locations. Such methods are typically not as widely
adopted and do not cover comparable time spans to standard variety trials. Inspired by the ability of
domain adaptation to reduce sparsity of data, we used our curated sources to learn models in order
to make predictions on the target region (the original GA dataset). This technique yielded poor

                                                   6
results, indicating that some true DA technique that augments data distributions should be explored
and would probably yield better results.

6 Future Work
We are currently planning three main directions for our next projects with predicting alfalfa biomass
yields. First, we plan to implement a variety of more sophisticated DA techniques than the one we
present here and compare those results. Second, we plan to develop a time series strategy that helps
us forecast future yields based preceding ones, adjusting its predictions along the way. Third, we are
interested in analyzing how the different varieties perform in different geographical locations. We
are also interested in streamlining our data curating pipeline to reduce the manual labor, and intend
to introduce stabilization metrics into this future work.

Acknowledgement
The authors would like to thank Sheng Li for his integral contributions to this work.

References
Shamsollah Ayoubi and Kanwar Lal Sahrawat. Comparing multivariate regression and artificial
  neural network to predict barley production from soil characteristics in northern iran. Archives of
  Agronomy and Soil Science, 57(5):549–565, 2011.

Enrico Bellocchio, Gabriele Costante, Silvia Cascianelli, Mario Luca Fravolini, and Paolo Valigi.
  Combining domain adaptation and spatial consistency for unseen fruits counting: a quasi-
  unsupervised approach. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 5(2):1079–1086, 2020.

Copenhagen     Consensus     Center.          Copenhagen    consensus                            cen-
  ter   on   climate   (date   accessed:   2021-03-11),  2015.                                  URL
  https://www.copenhagenconsensus.com/copenhagen-consensus-climate.

National Agricultural Statistics Center. Crop production (date accessed: 2021-03-11), 2018. URL
  https://www.nass.usda.gov/Publications/Todays_Reports/reports/crop1118.pdf.

Anna Chlingaryan, Salah Sukkarieh, and Brett Whelan. Machine learning approaches for crop yield
  prediction and nitrogen status estimation in precision agriculture: A review. Computers and
  electronics in agriculture, 151:61–69, 2018.

Renato LF Cunha, Bruno Silva, and Marco AS Netto. A scalable machine learning system for
  pre-season agriculture yield forecast. In 2018 IEEE 14th International Conference on e-Science
  (e-Science), pages 423–430. IEEE, 2018.

Hal Daumé III. Frustratingly easy domain adaptation. arXiv preprint arXiv:0907.1815, 2009.

Anaconda Software Distribution. Version 4.6.8 anaconda (date accessed: 2021-03-11), 2021. URL
  https://anaconda.com.

Python Software Foundation. Python language reference v3.68 (date accessed: 2021-03-11), 2021.
  URL https://www.python.org.

Juan Frausto-Solis, Alberto Gonzalez-Sanchez, and Monica Larre. A new method for optimal crop-
  ping pattern. In Mexican International Conference on Artificial Intelligence, pages 566–577.
  Springer, 2009.

Alberto González Sánchez, Juan Frausto Solís, Waldo Ojeda Bustamante, et al. Predictive ability of
  machine learning methods for massive crop yield prediction. 2014.

John D Hunter. Matplotlib: A 2d graphics environment. IEEE Annals of the History of Computing,
  9(03):90–95, 2007.

                                                  7
Jig Han Jeong, Jonathan P Resop, Nathaniel D Mueller, David H Fleisher, Kyungdahm Yun, Ethan E
   Butler, Dennis J Timlin, Kyo-Moon Shim, James S Gerber, Vangimalla R Reddy, et al. Random
   forests for global and regional crop yield predictions. PLoS One, 11(6):e0156571, 2016.
Jing Jiang. A literature survey on domain adaptation of statistical classifiers. URL: http://sifaka. cs.
   uiuc. edu/jiang4/domainadaptation/survey, 3:1–12, 2008.
David M Johnson. An assessment of pre-and within-season remotely sensed variables for forecasting
  corn and soybean yields in the united states. Remote Sensing of Environment, 141:116–128, 2014.
Bjorn Lomborg. The Nobel Laureates’ Guide to the Smartest Targets for the World: 2016-2030.
  Copenhagen Consensus Center USA, 2015.
Wes McKinney et al. Data structures for statistical computing in python. In Proceedings of the 9th
 Python in Science Conference, volume 445, pages 51–56. Austin, TX, 2010.
United Nations. The sustainable development agenda (date accessed: 2021-03-11), 2015. URL
  https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/development-agenda/.
Travis E Oliphant. A guide to NumPy, volume 1. Trelgol Publishing USA, 2006.
Igor Oliveira, Renato LF Cunha, Bruno Silva, and Marco AS Netto. A scalable machine learning
  system for pre-season agriculture yield forecast. arXiv preprint arXiv:1806.09244, 2018.
Sudhanshu Sekhar Panda, Daniel P Ames, and Suranjan Panigrahi. Application of vegetation indices
  for agricultural crop yield prediction using neural network techniques. Remote Sensing, 2(3):673–
  696, 2010.
Fabian Pedregosa, Gaël Varoquaux, Alexandre Gramfort, Vincent Michel, Bertrand Thirion, Olivier
  Grisel, Mathieu Blondel, Peter Prettenhofer, Ron Weiss, Vincent Dubourg, et al. Scikit-learn:
  Machine learning in python. the Journal of machine Learning research, 12:2825–2830, 2011.
Mark W Rosegrant, Eduardo Magalhaes, Rowena A Valmonte-Santos, and Daniel Mason-D’Croz.
 Returns to investment in reducing postharvest food losses and increasing agricultural productivity
 growth. Prioritizing development: A cost benefit analysis of the United Nations’ sustainable
 development goals, pages 322–338, 2018.
Georg Ruß. Data mining of agricultural yield data: A comparison of regression models. In Industrial
  Conference on Data Mining, pages 24–37. Springer, 2009.
Lisa Torrey and Jude Shavlik. Transfer learning. In Handbook of research on machine learning
  applications and trends: algorithms, methods, and techniques, pages 242–264. IGI global, 2010.
Stefan Van Der Walt, S Chris Colbert, and Gael Varoquaux. The numpy array: a structure for
  efficient numerical computation. Computing in science & engineering, 13(2):22–30, 2011.
Michael Waskom, Maoz Gelbart, Olga Botvinnik, Joel Ostblom, Paul Hobson, Saulius Lukauskas,
 David C Gemperline, Tom Augspurger, Yaroslav Halchenko, Jordi Warmenhoven, John B. Cole,
 Julian de Ruiter, Ewout ter Hoeven, Jake Vanderplas, Stephan Hoyer, Cameron Pye, Alistair
 Miles, Corban Swain, Kyle Meyer, Marcel Martin, Pete Bachant, Eric Quintero, Gero Kunter,
 Santi Villalba, Brian, Clark Fitzgerald, Constantine Evans, Mike Lee Williams, Drew O’Kane,
 and Tal Yarkoni. mwaskom/seaborn: v0.12.0a1, June 2022 (Date accessed: 2021-03-11). URL
 https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.6609266. If seaborn is integral to a scientific publication,
 please cite the following paper:.
Christopher D Whitmire, Jonathan M Vance, Hend K Rasheed, Ali Missaoui, Khaled M Rasheed,
  and Frederick W Maier. Using machine learning and feature selection for alfalfa yield prediction.
  AI, 2(1):71–88, 2021.
Christopher Duncan Whitmire. Machine learning and feature selection for biomass yield prediction
  using weather and planting data. Master’s thesis, University of Georgia, 2019.
Jinru Xue and Baofeng Su. Significant remote sensing vegetation indices: A review of developments
   and applications. Journal of Sensors, 2017, 2017.

                                                   8
Jiaxuan You, Xiaocheng Li, Melvin Low, David Lobell, and Stefano Ermon. Deep gaussian pro-
   cess for crop yield prediction based on remote sensing data. In Thirty-First AAAI conference on
   artificial intelligence, 2017.


A    Appendix
CODE AND DATA ACCESSIBILITY
The source code for this project is available at https://github.com/chriswhitmire/alfalfa-yield-
prediction and https://github.com/thejonathanvancetrance/Alfalfa
The      University    of    Georgia     alfalfa    yield     data    can      be     found     here:
https://georgiaforages.caes.uga.edu/species-and-varieties/cool-season/alfalfa.html
The University of Kentucky alfalfa yield data can be found as progress reports on this page:
http://dept.ca.uky.edu/agc/pub_prefix.asp?series=PR Note that the only data that was used from
the University of Kentucky was the non-roundup ready alfalfa varieties that were first harvested
in the year 2013 or later. The daily weather data for Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Mississippi,
and Wisconsin was found on the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration website:
https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/crn/qcdatasets.html
The daily weather data for Georgia was given to us by the Georgia Automated Environmental Mon-
itoring Network.
The day length was found from the United States                    Naval Observatory’s website:
https://aa.usno.navy.mil/data/docs/Dur_OneYear.php
Variety Trial Reports for PA can be found at https://extension.psu.edu/forage-variety-trials-reports
Variety Trial Reports for WI can be found at https://fyi.extension.wisc.edu/forage/category/trial-
results/
Variety Trial Reports for MS can be found at https://www.mafes.msstate.edu/variety-
trials/includes/forage/about.asp#perennial

B Appendix
HYPERPARAMETER GRID VALUES
The grid for the hyperparameters of each model is as follows: Regression Tree:
       • ‘criterion’: [’mae’],
       • ‘max_depth’: [5,10,25,50,100]
Random forest:
       • ’n_estimators’: [5, 10, 25, 50, 100],
       • ’max_depth’: [5, 10, 15, 20],
       • ’criterion’: ["mae"]
K-nearest neighbors:
       • ’n_neighbors’: [2,5,10],
       • ’weights’: [’uniform’, ’distance’],
       • ’leaf_size’: [5, 10, 30, 50]
Support vector machine:
       • ’kernel’: [’linear’, ’poly’, ’rbf’, ’sigmoid’],
       • ’C’: [0.1, 1.0, 5.0, 10.0],
       • ’gamma’: ["scale", "auto"], ’degree’: [2,3,4,5]

                                                  9
Neural Network:

      • ’hidden_layer_sizes’:[(3), (5), (10), (3,3), (5,5), (10,10)],
      • ’solver’: [’sgd’, ’adam’],
      • ’learning_rate’ : [’constant’, ’invscaling’, ’adaptive’], ’learning_rate_init’: [0.1, 0.01,
        0.001]

Bayesian ridge regression:

      • ’n_iter’:[100,300,500],
      • ’lambda_1’: [1.e-6, 1.e-4, 1.e-2, 1, 10],
      • ’lambda_1’: [1.e-6, 1.e-4, 1.e-2, 1, 10]

Linear Regression: no hyperparameters




                                                    10
