Improving the Accuracy of Seasonal Crop Coefficients in Grapevine from Sentinel-2 Data

Next Article in Journal

UAV-PPK Photogrammetry, GIS, and Soil Analysis to Estimate Long-Term Slip Rates on Active Faults in a Seismic Gap of Northern Calabria (Southern Italy)

Next Article in Special Issue

Estimating Soil Moisture Using Multimodal Remote Sensing and Transfer Optimization Techniques

Previous Article in Journal

Estimating Fractional Land Cover Using Sentinel-2 and Multi-Source Data with Traditional Machine Learning and Deep Learning Approaches

Previous Article in Special Issue

Forcing the SAFY Dynamic Crop Growth Model with Sentinel-2 LAI Estimates and Weather Inputs from AgERA5 Reanalysis and CM SAF SARAH-3 Radiation Data for Estimating Crop Water Requirements and Yield

Journals

Active Journals
Find a Journal
Journal Proposal
Proceedings Series

Topics

Information

For Authors
For Reviewers
For Editors
For Librarians
For Publishers
For Societies
For Conference Organizers

Open Access Policy
Institutional Open Access Program
Special Issues Guidelines
Editorial Process
Research and Publication Ethics
Article Processing Charge
Awards
Testimonials

Author Services

Initiatives

Sciforum
MDPI Books
Preprints.org
Scilit
SciProfiles
Encyclopedia
JAMS
Proceedings Series

About

Overview
Contact
Careers
News
Press
Blog

Sign In / Sign Up

Notice

clear

Notice

You are accessing a machine-readable page. In order to be human-readable, please install an RSS reader.

Continue
Cancel

clear

All articles published by MDPI are made immediately available worldwide under an open access license. No special
permission is required to reuse all or part of the article published by MDPI, including figures and tables. For
articles published under an open access Creative Common CC BY license, any part of the article may be reused without
permission provided that the original article is clearly cited. For more information, please refer to
https://www.mdpi.com/openaccess.

Feature papers represent the most advanced research with significant potential for high impact in the field. A Feature
Paper should be a substantial original Article that involves several techniques or approaches, provides an outlook for
future research directions and describes possible research applications.

Feature papers are submitted upon individual invitation or recommendation by the scientific editors and must receive
positive feedback from the reviewers.

Editor’s Choice articles are based on recommendations by the scientific editors of MDPI journals from around the world.
Editors select a small number of articles recently published in the journal that they believe will be particularly
interesting to readers, or important in the respective research area. The aim is to provide a snapshot of some of the
most exciting work published in the various research areas of the journal.

Original Submission Date Received: .

Submit to this Journal

Review for this Journal

Propose a Special Issue

►
▼
Article Menu

Article Menu

Academic Editors

Ramona Magno

Paolo Filippucci

Ran Meng

Recommended Articles

Related Info Link

Google Scholar

More by Authors Links

on DOAJ

Guevara-Torres, D. R.

Luo, H.

Do, C. Mai

Ostendorf, B.

Pagay, V.

on Google Scholar

Guevara-Torres, D. R.

Luo, H.

Do, C. Mai

Ostendorf, B.

Pagay, V.

on PubMed

Guevara-Torres, D. R.

Luo, H.

Do, C. Mai

Ostendorf, B.

Pagay, V.

Article Views
1806

Citations
2

Table of Contents

Highlights

Abstract

Introduction

Materials and Methods

Results

Discussion

Conclusions

Supplementary Materials

Author Contributions

Funding

Data Availability Statement

Acknowledgments

Conflicts of Interest

References

Altmetric

share
Share

announcement
Help

format_quote
Cite

question_answer
Discuss in SciProfiles

Need Help?

Support

Find support for a specific problem in the support section of our website.

Get Support

Feedback

Please let us know what you think of our products and services.

Give Feedback

Information

Visit our dedicated information section to learn more about MDPI.

Get Information

clear

JSmol Viewer

clear

first_page

Download PDF

settings

Order Article Reprints

Font Type:

Arial
Georgia
Verdana

Font Size:

Aa
Aa
Aa

Line Spacing:







Column Width:







Background:

Open AccessArticle

Improving the Accuracy of Seasonal Crop Coefficients in Grapevine from Sentinel-2 Data

by

Diego R. Guevara-Torres

Diego R. Guevara-Torres

SciProfiles

Scilit

Preprints.org

Google Scholar

1,2,

Hankun Luo

Hankun Luo

SciProfiles

Scilit

Preprints.org

Google Scholar

1,

Chi Mai Do

Chi Mai Do

SciProfiles

Scilit

Preprints.org

Google Scholar

1,

Bertram Ostendorf

Bertram Ostendorf

SciProfiles

Scilit

Preprints.org

Google Scholar

2 and

Vinay Pagay

Vinay Pagay

SciProfiles

Scilit

Preprints.org

Google Scholar

1,*

1

School of Agriculture, Food & Wine, University of Adelaide, PMB 1, Glen Osmond, SA 5064, Australia

2

Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia

*

Author to whom correspondence should be addressed.

Remote Sens. 2025, 17(19), 3365; https://doi.org/10.3390/rs17193365

Submission received: 24 June 2025
/
Revised: 22 September 2025
/
Accepted: 27 September 2025
/
Published: 4 October 2025

(This article belongs to the Special Issue Remote Sensing for Agricultural Water Management (RSAWM) (Second Edition))

Download keyboard_arrow_down

Download PDF

Download PDF with Cover

Download XML

Download Epub

Download Supplementary Material

Browse Figures

Versions Notes

Highlights

What are the main findings?

This research presents a novel method to increase the accuracy of grapevine crop coefficients using spectrally unmixed vegetation indices from Sentinel-2 open-source data.

Spectral unmixing improves the prediction accuracy of crop coefficients in Shiraz, Cabernet Sauvignon, and Chardonnay grapevine cultivars, and our models show transferability across regions and cultivars.

What is the implication of the main finding?

High-accuracy crop coefficients can increase the efficiency of water use by irrigators and thereby improve sustainability.

The methodology presented here can be applied to other crop parameters that are modelled using low-resolution satellite data.

Abstract

Accurate assessment of a crop’s water requirement is essential for optimising irrigation scheduling and increasing the sustainability of water use. The crop coefficient (Kc) is a dimensionless factor that converts reference evapotranspiration (ET0) into actual crop evapotranspiration (ETc) and is widely used for irrigation scheduling. The Kc reflects canopy cover, phenology, and crop type/variety, but is difficult to measure directly in heterogeneous perennial systems, such as vineyards. Remote sensing (RS) products, especially open-source satellite imagery, offer a cost-effective solution at moderate spatial and temporal scales, although their application in vineyards has been relatively limited due to the large pixel size (~100 m2) relative to vine canopy size (~2 m2). This study aimed to improve grapevine Kc predictions using vegetation indices derived from harmonised Sentinel-2 imagery in combination with spectral unmixing, with ground data obtained from canopy light interception measurements in three winegrape cultivars (Shiraz, Cabernet Sauvignon, and Chardonnay) in the Barossa and Eden Valleys, South Australia. A linear spectral mixture analysis approach was taken, which required estimation of vine canopy cover through beta regression models to improve the accuracy of vegetation indices that were used to build the Kc prediction models. Unmixing improved the prediction of seasonal Kc values in Shiraz (R2 of 0.625, RMSE = 0.078, MAE = 0.063), Cabernet Sauvignon (R2 = 0.686, RMSE = 0.072, MAE = 0.055) and Chardonnay (R2 = 0.814, RMSE = 0.075, MAE = 0.059) compared to unmixed pixels. Furthermore, unmixing improved predictions during the early and late canopy growth stages when pixel variability was greater. Our findings demonstrate that integrating open-source satellite data with machine learning models and spectral unmixing can accurately reproduce the temporal dynamics of Kc values in vineyards. This approach was also shown to be transferable across cultivars and regions, providing a practical tool for crop monitoring and irrigation management in support of sustainable viticulture.

Keywords:
spectral unmixing; crop coefficient; evapotranspiration; canopy modelling

1. Introduction

Water management in agriculture has become increasingly critical due to the scarcity of freshwater resources, exacerbated by climate change impacts on water availability and agricultural productivity [1,2]. The rise in climate variability, marked by more frequent extreme events, such as prolonged droughts, is expected to impact agricultural systems beyond the gradual effects of climate change [3]. The wine industry is particularly vulnerable, as climate change will impose increasingly warm and dry conditions on vineyards, affecting wine quality and yield [4]. In arid and semi-arid regions, irrigation scheduling is essential to optimise water applications, achieve production goals, and build resilience to climate change [5], especially for wine regions in Australia, where more than 90% of vineyards relied on irrigation other than rainfall in 2019–2020 [6], precision irrigation technologies and irrigation scheduling [7,8,9] are especially considered necessary for sustainable production.

Advances in the understanding of grapevine irrigation over the last two decades have involved the assessment of vineyard and vine water requirements, as well as the effects of water stress on vine performance [10]. Also, newly designed precision irrigation systems like variable rate drip irrigation (VRDI) report ~10% yield increases with ~17% higher water use efficiency [7]. The winegrape industry has experienced a transition from experience-based irrigation to data-driven irrigation, as the former has become unreliable under shifting weather conditions [11]. Among various data-driven strategies, particularly those utilising soil and crop water status measurements, the evaporative demand strategy has demonstrated the highest water use efficiency in premium winegrape vineyards [9]. This strategy involves calculating the crop’s water use or evapotranspiration (ETc) to estimate the amount of water needed in the next irrigation cycle [8]. This strategy is advantageous because it accounts for the environmental factors that drive water loss from the soil and the plant. ETc can be calculated directly using a lysimeter, eddy covariance, the Bowen ratio, and soil water balance methods [12,13]. However, these methods are expensive to implement and often provide a limited representation of the spatial variability in ETc across a vineyard. Hence, ETc is often estimated using the Penman–Monteith energy balance model, which combines reference evapotranspiration (ET0) with a crop coefficient (Kc), a key parameter used to assess water requirements, crop health, and stress [14].

Accurate seasonal Kc values are essential for improving the precision of ETc calculations and estimating water use. Seasonal Kc values should reflect the unique characteristics of winegrape cultivars, vine size, and training systems, incorporating the inherent variability present in vineyards [15]. Healthy vegetation with high canopy coverage is associated with high Kc values, as the Kc is proportional to canopy size and influenced by factors such as the crop’s phenological stage, training systems, pruning practices, and vegetative growth, all of which affect vine transpiration and soil evaporation by shading the ground [8,16]. Thus, the Kc is affected by vineyards’ spatial and temporal variability, which is driven by factors such as disease, irrigation practices, and soil quality [17]. Current measures employed to estimate the Kc are not only resource- and time-consuming, but spatially limited. Traditional methods in vineyards include direct measurements using lysimeters and light interception techniques like the Paso Panel [18]. However, these methods are time- and labour-intensive, requiring manual measurements and several visits to the vineyard over the growing season. Alternatively, automated systems, such as Eddy Covariance Flux towers, estimate actual evapotranspiration (ETa) but involve substantial infrastructure costs [19]. Moreover, the data from these methods are point sources and provide limited spatial coverage, restricting their usefulness in assessing irrigation needs across large vineyards.

Monitoring Kc using remote sensing techniques offers significant advantages for spatial and temporal assessments. Technologies like unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) allow access to high-resolution imagery < 50 cm to estimate accurate Kc across vineyards [20]. However, UAV imagery acquisition is limited by operational flexibility, high costs, and expertise in data processing [21]. In contrast, satellite imagery has greater spatial and temporal flexibility [7,22]. Open-source satellites provide moderate spatial resolution imagery (band-dependent), such as the products of Landsat 8 (15, 30 and 100 m) and Sentinel-2 (10, 20, and 60 m), with revisit times of 16 and 5 days, respectively, facilitating the construction of dense time series over large areas [23]. Satellite-derived datasets offer an advantage over UAV imagery by enhancing the development of more robust models for estimating Kc, as they provide broader spatial coverage and more comprehensive time frames, despite occasional cloud cover. Several studies have focused on directly estimating Kc using satellite spectral bands from satellite imagery, including grapevine [24]. IrriSAT, an open-source weather-based irrigation scheduling service, uses linear models based on the normalised difference vegetation index (NDVI) at 30 m resolution to estimate Kc [25]. Other studies have utilised spectral and thermal indices, such as the NDVI and the crop water stress index (CWSI), as well as structural attributes, such as the canopy size, leaf area index (LAI), and shaded area, to predict Kc [24,26,27,28,29,30,31].

In row crops with small crop sizes, such as in vineyards, it remains challenging to accurately predict grapevine Kc using open-source satellite imagery (e.g., Sentinel-2, Landsat 8/9, etc.) due to the mixed spectral signal. Vineyards have a regular canopy orientation but with low density and leaf coverage compared to planophile crops, such as corn [32]. Furthermore, common row and vine spacings (0.5–3.0 m × 1.0–3.7 m, [17,33]) in vineyards are generally less than the spatial resolution of Sentinel and Landsat products, with inter-rows often covered by native or planted vegetation, such as cover crops ([34]). As a result, a single satellite pixel contains different land covers (bare soil, other vegetation), different from the crop of interest, and adds considerable noise to the pixel spectrum and the following vine assessments [35,36,37]. If directly interpreted, mixed spectral information could lead to inaccurate assessments of the crop [38].

To address the mixed pixel problem and retrieve the spectral information on different land covers, various approaches have been developed [39]. While probabilistic, fuzzy, or geometric-optical models represent pixel mixtures through probability distributions, fuzzy memberships, or canopy geometry, spectral unmixing uniquely decomposes the observed spectrum into pure endmembers and their corresponding abundances, making it the most widely applied method over the past four decades [39,40,41,42]. Spectral unmixing typically involves two steps: (i) decomposition of each mixed spectrum into a set of endmembers; and (ii) estimation of the abundances of each endmember in the pixel [43]. Depending on the underlying assumptions, unmixing models are generally categorised as linear or nonlinear. Linear spectral unmixing is by far the most widely applied, as it is well-suited to scenes with spatially segregated land-cover patterns, although nonlinear formulations often achieve better performance in complex environments, such as dense tree canopies [41]. To the best of our knowledge, there are no reports in the literature on spectral unmixing of Sentinel-2 pixels to improve Kc estimation in vineyards. This study aims to fill this gap.

2. Materials and Methods

2.1. Study Site

This study was conducted on three winegrape cultivars from vineyards in the Barossa Valley in South Australia (Figure 1a), one of the world’s most renowned red-wine-producing regions [44], with bottled wine exports under GI label claims exceeding 6.7 million litres worth AUD 116 million in 2023–24 [45]. This study took place in one vineyard block of mature Shiraz (34°29′47.7″S, 138°54′12.8″E), one vineyard block of mature Cabernet Sauvignon (34°30′03.9″S, 138°54′05.3″E), and one mature Chardonnay vineyard block (34°37′19.8″S, 139°02′17.8″E). Both vineyards presented a cover crop dominated by native vineyard vegetation comprising permanent swards, and the vines were well-irrigated throughout the growing season. However, the composition of vineyard floor vegetation differed between the two vineyards, as the Chardonnay block was located near a woody area. Vines were harvested in late February, late March and mid-February for Shiraz, Cabernet Sauvignon, and Chardonnay, respectively.

Figure 1.
Vineyards locations in Barossa Valley (34°32′S, 138°57′E) and Eden Valley (34.641°S, 139.098°E), South Australia; (a) sampling points Shiraz (in yellow, 34°29′47.7″S, 138°54′12.8″E) and Cabernet Sauvignon (in blue, 34°30′03.9″S, 138°54′05.3″E) in Barossa Valley; and (b) Chardonnay (in red, 34°37′19.8″S, 139°02′17.8″E) in Eden Valley.

2.2. Crop Coefficient Ground Data

A custom-built flexible solar panel called the ‘Paso Panel’ was used for Kc ground truthing [18]. The Paso Panel’s estimation of the Kc involved measuring the ratio of incident to intercepted light from the sun. The panel was positioned perpendicular to the cordon during the canopy measurement, 10–15 cm above the ground. The Paso Panel was positioned parallel to the ground, ensuring the vine shadow covered the centre of the panel and that no shadows unrelated to the specific vine were cast on the panel. Sampling consisted of under-vine measurements on both cordons for each vine selected randomly across the vineyard. Sampling locations were registered with an Emlid Reach RS2+ GPS receiver (Budapest, Hungary). Calculations for the Kcs were computed using Equation (1) proposed by [46], where Lp is the length of the Paso Panel and Wr is the row spacing. Is and Ic are the current readings made under full sun and the canopy shade, respectively.

𝐾𝑐=1.7×𝐿𝑝𝑊𝑟(1−𝐼𝑐𝐼𝑠)−0.008Kc=1.7×LpWr1−IcIs−0.008

(1)

The Paso Panel measurements were conducted at key phenological stages of vine growth, starting in October 2023 (near flowering stage) and finishing in March, April, and February 2024, with 660, 191, and 140 sampling points for Cabernet Sauvignon, Shiraz, and Chardonnay, respectively.

2.3. Remote Sensing Data Acquisition

From October 2023 to April 2024, a time series of the harmonised Sentinel-2 dataset (S2_SR) in Google Earth Engine (GEE) was obtained. The datasets were processed with a cloud filter of less than 1%, as suggested in the developers’ documentation [47]. Following the developers’ documentation, raster values were extracted from Sentinel-2 bands (Table 1) for each ground sampling point [48]. A buffer of 10 m allowed us to calculate a median value for each band in each location before the extraction. The feature collection was exported as a Comma Separated Value (CSV) file containing the information on Sentinel-2 bands for each location across the time series.

Table 1.
List of spectral bands used in random forest classifications.

2.4. Vegetation Indices

A total of 16 spectral indices were calculated for each sampling location, representing key vegetation properties, including vigour, chlorophyll sensitivity, water status, and soil background adjustment (Table 2). These included the normalised difference vegetation index (NDVI) and the enhanced vegetation index (EVI), two indices commonly used in vegetation classification analysis [49]. Vegetation indices associated with vegetation greenness, such as the green normalised difference vegetation index (GNDVI) and the green index (GI), were also included. Additional vegetation indices included those with red-edge bands that are significant for vegetation analysis [50,51], including the normalised difference red-edge index (NDRE), chlorophyll index (CIRE), inverted red-edge chlorophyll index (IRECI), red-edge chlorophyll absorption index (RECAI), red-edge position index (REP), and normalised difference red-edge index, RENDVI2. The normalised difference water index (NDWI) and the normalised difference infrared index (NDII) were also considered, both used to monitor vegetation water content, as well as the moisture stress index (MSI), used to measure vegetation moisture levels [50]. A further inclusion considered the soil-adjusted vegetation index (SAVI) and its red-edge version (SAVIRED), the modified soil-adjusted vegetation index (MSAVI), to account for soil background effects to enhance the accuracy of vegetation measurements [52,53].

Table 2.
List of vegetation indices used in random forest classifications.

2.5. Canopy Cover Data

In this study, canopy cover was defined as the percentage of each Sentinel-2 pixel (10 × 10 m) occupied by vine canopy, expressed as the proportion of the canopy area relative to the total cell area. A 10 × 10 m grid, matching the Sentinel-2 spatial resolution, was overlaid on the vineyards to enhance the correlation between ground canopy estimates and satellite-derived information. High-resolution visible imagery was used to calculate vine canopy area at the initial, full, and senescence phenological stages of Shiraz and Cabernet Sauvignon. The initial low canopy data for both varieties was obtained from an Airbus image (Pleiades NEO red, green, and blue bands) taken on 7 November 2023, with a resolution of 15 cm. Shiraz’s full canopy was obtained using a DJI Matrice 600 Pro (SZ DJI Technology Co., Ltd., Shenzhen, Guangdong, China) on 20 December 2023 and Shiraz’s senescence was obtained using a DJI Mavic Pro 2 (SZ DJI Technology Co., Ltd., China) on 22 March 2024, achieving a 2.5 cm resolution. Cabernet Sauvignon’s full canopy and senescence data were obtained using a DJI Mavic Pro 2 (SZ DJI Technology Co., Ltd., China), with a 2.5 cm resolution. The full canopy image was taken on 15 March 2024, and senescence on 6 May 2024 (the senescence flight took place later due to the stable canopy condition of Cabernet Sauvignon after harvest).

To estimate the area occupied by vine canopy, an image classification was performed in ArcGIS Pro using the support vector machine (SVM) classifier, with accuracy assessed using independent validation samples. The classification achieved an overall accuracy, as measured by the Kappa coefficient, greater than 0.7 in all classifications. A grid overlay with a 10 m spatial resolution, matching Sentinel-2’s pixel resolution, was created in ArcGIS Pro. The canopy area within each cell was extracted from the canopy area classification and expressed as a fractional cover. The extraction was conducted in 28 locations, with no dead vines in each block. Models were then developed to predict canopy cover for multiple dates.

2.6. Canopy Cover Models

To estimate canopy cover, separate models were developed for Shiraz and Cabernet Sauvignon based on NDVI values and the number of days elapsed since 11 October 2023, when the vines had few leaves separated (initial phenology stage). For each of the 28 previously selected locations, a direct raster-to-point extraction of NDVI values was performed for dates closely corresponding to the acquisition dates of the high-resolution multispectral imagery. The Google Earth Engine (GEE) developers’ documentation guidelines for NDVI calculation and extraction were employed [66]. Canopy cover was estimated using Beta regression models, which are well-suited for proportion data and can effectively account for the variability often seen in ecological data [67]. The ‘betareg’ package in R (Version 4.3.1, RStudio Version 6.0.421) was used, with 30% of the dataset used for model validation and 70% for model training. To avoid Kc overprediction during the early season resulting from cover crops, a logistic model was developed using the predicted canopy cover from November to January, when the vines reached maximum canopy size. In the case of Chardonnay, the canopy cover was estimated using the beta regression and logistic models developed for Shiraz, as both share similar phenological periods.

2.7. Spectral Unmixing

A linear spectral mixture analysis approach was adopted to determine specific improved vegetation indices of the vines. The unmixing procedure models the mixed pixel reflectance spectra as a linear combination of the pure spectral signatures of endmembers (components), weighted by their fractional cover within the pixel [68]. This approach assumes that all endmembers present in the pixel are considered and that their fractional cover totals one [41,69]. The analysis was simplified to two endmembers representing the cover crop (cc) and vines (Equation (2)). Since other endmembers could be participating in the pixel, we addressed the overinflated unmixed vegetation index values, empirically applying a factor of 0.5 to normalise the results (Equation (3)).

𝑉𝐼𝑚𝑖𝑥𝑒𝑑=𝑉𝐼𝑣𝑖𝑛𝑒𝑠×𝑓𝑣𝑖𝑛𝑒𝑠+𝑉𝐼𝑐𝑐×𝑓𝑐𝑐VImixed=VIvines×fvines+VIcc×fcc

(2)

𝑉𝐼𝑣𝑖𝑛𝑒𝑠=(𝑉𝐼𝑚𝑖𝑥𝑒𝑑−(𝑉𝐼𝑐𝑐×(1−𝑓𝑣𝑖𝑛𝑒𝑠)))/(2×𝑓𝑣𝑖𝑛𝑒𝑠)VIvines=(VImixed−(VIcc×(1−fvines)))/(2×fvines)

(3)

The canopy cover predicted for each variety, using the beta regression and logistic models previously described, was estimated as the fractional cover of vines. The cover crop fractional cover was calculated as the complement of the vine fractional cover (i.e., 1-(vine fractional cover)). The vegetation index value for the cover crop was obtained from select vineyard reference points where an entire pixel was filled with cover crop vegetation similar to that found in the vineyard inter-rows.

2.8. Crop Coefficient Modelling

To predict Kc in vineyards, the performance of three statistical and machine learning models, run on each variety, was compared. All statistics were computed in the R programming language (Version 4.3.1, RStudio Version 1.4.1106). The first model to be tested was a generalised additive model (GAM), a class of models suitable for handling nonlinear relationships and facilitating the modelling of complex temporal trends [70,71]. To develop GAM models, the ‘mgcv’ package was employed. Before modelling, a stepwise selection method based on the RMSE was conducted to identify the most relevant variables. The data was split into training (70%) and testing (30%) sets over 100 iterations to ensure a robust data selection. In each iteration, a GAM was fitted, and variables were selected iteratively based on their capacity to minimise the RMSE. The chosen variables from each iteration were aggregated to calculate their mean importance and frequency of selection. Variables with a frequency greater than the frequency median over 100 iterations were selected for modelling.

The second model employed was a random forest (RF) algorithm, a commonly used machine learning method for remote sensing classifications and regressions. This method has proven efficient in remote sensing analysis, as previously conducted for Kc modelling from UAV multispectral data [20]. RF can handle high-dimensional data and accurately classify complex environments [72]. By producing a large number of decision trees, RF is less sensitive to the quality of training samples and overfitting [73]. Decision trees are a type of model that employs randomly selected training samples to learn the characteristics of the classes that the model will be predicting. In this study, RF models were developed using the ‘RandomForest’ package. To improve the predictive accuracy of RF, hyperparameter tuning was performed to pre-select variables. Using the package ‘caret’, a search over a grid ranging from 2 to 8 was conducted to find the best combination of parameters. A five-fold cross-validation was employed to improve the reliability of the selection. The data was split into training (70%) and testing (30%) sets across 100 iterations to account for variability and ensure reliable results. In each iteration, an RF model was trained using the defined tuning grid and cross-validation setup, and the feature importance scores from the best model in each iteration were extracted and aggregated to calculate the mean importance and count of iterations for each variable. The final variables were selected based on their frequency above the median count over 100 iterations.

The third model employed was a support vector machine (SVM) model with a radial basis function (RBF) kernel. The SVM model is known for its robustness in handling high-dimensional and nonlinear data [74], and has been used in viticulture to estimate ETc [75]. The RBF kernel maps input features into a higher-dimensional space, facilitating the discovery of optimal hyperplanes for separation in linear and nonlinear data distributions [76]. The ‘e1071’ package was employed in the R software. Before running the SVM model, Recursive Feature Elimination (RFE) with cross-validation was employed to preselect variables. The hyperparameter tuning used for RF was not computed since SVMs do not naturally provide feature importance metrics. RFE is a method for feature selection that recursively removes the least important features based on model performance, helping to enhance the model’s predictive accuracy and generalisability [77]. Cross-validation ensured a robust and unbiased selection of features, reducing the risk of overfitting and improving the model’s stability. The RFE process employed a five-fold cross-validation and utilised a random forest model for feature ranking. This process was repeated 100 times to ensure reliable and consistent feature selection, ultimately optimising the predictors for the SVM model with an RBF kernel. The final variables were selected based on their occurrence above the median count across the 100 iterations.

Modelling was based on field-based observations consisting of 269 samples from nine dates for Shiraz, 191 samples from eight dates for Cabernet Sauvignon, and 140 samples from five dates for Chardonnay. For each modelling process, 70% of the field-based observations were repeatedly selected as random subsets for training, and the remaining 30% were used for model testing. The final set of variables selected for each type of model was employed for Kc predictions. This procedure was conducted 100 times, and the mean R2, RMSE, and MAE were calculated to assess model performance. All modelling was conducted in R.

2.9. Model Validation with Ground Control Data

As an additional source of validation, Kc predictions were contrasted to ground-truth data obtained from an evapotranspiration sensor (Model LI-710, LI-COR Inc., Lincoln, NE, USA). The LI-710 employs vertical path-integrated eddy covariance to estimate latent and sensible heat fluxes by analysing high-frequency fluctuations in humidity and vertical wind speed [78]. The flux data is processed internally and reported as fully corrected outputs at regular intervals (generally every 30 min), providing direct measurements of evapotranspiration over a radius of approximately 100 m and eliminating the need for empirical crop coefficients [79]. The LI-710 was installed in the Cabernet Sauvignon block, approx. 1 m above the canopy. The model predictions were contrasted to the Kc measures obtained by the sensor on the closest day under normal conditions (no extreme solar radiation nor wind) or the mean of proximate dates.

2.10. Projection to Sentinel-2 Rasters

The most accurate and stable model approach was applied to raster stacks from Sentinel-2 to predict Kcs across the block of Shiraz and Cabernet Sauvignon. Applying a trained model per pixel produces a distribution shift; pixel-scale inputs are noisier and less vegetated on average, so the predicted Kc tends to be compressed and biased low. This mismatch arises from the use of 10 m buffers for feature extraction at training time. To restore comparability with point-scale estimates for the same date, a post hoc calibration that matches the first two moments (mean and standard deviation) of the raster to those of a same-day reference set was applied (Equation (4)). Two dates were selected to assess the effectiveness of the projection by contrasting Kc values from mid-season (9 January 2024) and late-season (23 March 2024) from the Shiraz block.

The most accurate and stable model approach was applied to raster stacks from Sentinel-2 to predict the Kcs. Applying the model to per-pixel rasters introduced a change of spatial support because the model was trained on the median of vegetation indices extracted within a buffer around ground sampling points, resulting in predictions that tend to be shrunk toward the mean and biased low. To correct the mismatch, while preserving spatial ranks, a linear calibration was applied to the predicted Kc raster. For each date, the mean and standard deviation of the predictions on the rasters and the ground sampling points were estimated. The raster was linearly rescaled so it had the same average and the same amount of variation as the field data.

To assess the validity of our approach, model predictions were contrasted to the Kc derived from the NDVI by applying the widely used equation (Equation (4)) in [24], interpreted within the FAO-56 dual-coefficient framework [14]. For the comparison, the Cabernet Sauvignon block was selected since it contained LI-710 ground data for the assessment. The date 30 November 2023 was selected to provide a scenario where cover crops tend to interfere with the vine canopy signal in mixed pixels, allowing for the assessment of unmixing performance.

𝐾𝑐𝑏=1.44 𝑁𝐷𝑉𝐼−0.10Kcb=1.44 NDVI−0.10

(4)

A flowchart summarising the methods is presented in Figure 2.

Figure 2.
Flowchart showing data acquisition and modelling used in this study.

3. Results

3.1. Crop Coefficient Ground Data

Predictions of the Kcs over the season corresponded to the stages of canopy growth, reaching a peak with canopy expansion by mid-season and decreasing as senescence progressed (Table 3). Cabernet Sauvignon exhibited the most rapid increase in Kc, starting with a Kc of 0.35 in October, followed by 0.53 in mid-November, and reaching a peak of 0.722 in January, before gradually declining to 0.65 in March. Shiraz displayed a slower progression, starting at a Kc of 0.28 in October, followed by 0.46 in mid-November, and reaching a maximum of 0.61 in February, before declining to 0.44 in March. Chardonnay increased more gradually during the early season but accelerated later, rising from 0.28 to 0.64 in early November to peaking at 0.70 in January, followed by a slight decline from February onward. Cabernet Sauvignon contrasts with other cultivars, as it is capable of maintaining photosynthetic activity and canopy transpiration for extended periods, reaching senescence later than other cultivars [80]. Figure 3 illustrates the spatiotemporal distribution of the sampling points in the Shiraz block representing the early stages of vine development (19 October), peak vine development (12 January), and decline (23 March).

Figure 3.
Paso Panel field-measured Kc, obtained at sample points in Shiraz block for early (19 October), mid (12 January), and late (23 March) season.

Table 3.
Mean ± SD of Kc from Paso Panel measurements in three cultivars: Shiraz, Cabernet Sauvignon, and Chardonnay. n = number of sampling points per timepoint.

3.2. Canopy Cover Modelling

Canopy cover model performance for Shiraz yielded a pseudo-R2 of 0.821, with a root mean square error (RMSE) of 0.027, and a mean absolute error (MAE) of 0.022. Cabernet Sauvignon performed similarly, showing a pseudo-R2 of 0.818, RMSE of 0.043, and MAE of 0.035. The application of beta regression and logistic models developed for Shiraz resulted in a canopy development pattern that followed a logistic trajectory, characterised by rapid growth during the early season, a plateau at full canopy cover, and a subsequent decline during senescence. The application of models developed for Shiraz on the Chardonnay block resulted in an expected phenological pattern for vine development (Figure 4).

Figure 4.
Model-derived canopy cover (green lines, ±SD in blue lines) fitted from NDVI using beta/logistic regression models, compared with satellite-derived canopy cover (black triangles) at image acquisition dates. Panels show (a) Shiraz, (b) Cabernet Sauvignon, and (c) Chardonnay.

3.3. Spectral Unmixing

Spectral unmixing improved the vegetation indices by reducing cover crop interference, revealing different patterns among cultivars. Unmixed indices were lower than mixed indices during the early season when the vine leaves were small, while unmixed indices remained stable and decreased progressively later in the season when cover crops senesced, and mixed indices dropped in value. However, unmixing in early October was less effective for Cabernet Sauvignon and Chardonnay vines, particularly in the former, which showed higher mixed values during the early season. Most indices agreed with each other and the Kc evolution, following the patterns observed for the NDVI and NDRE (Figure S1), except for the RECAI, NDWI, and SAVI. The disagreement with the RECAI could be associated with the chlorophyll content, which may remain relatively stable even after véraison and harvest. In the case of the NDWI and SAVI during the early season, the exposure of soil underneath the vines (this area is generally free of cover crops throughout the season) and the high soil moisture associated with precipitation and supplemental irrigation could have influenced the values of these two indices.

3.4. Crop Coefficient Modelling

Model performance data varied across cultivars and modelling approaches (Table 4, Figure 5). The GAM models achieved higher R2 values than the RF and SVM models in all cultivars. Chardonnay achieved the highest accuracy with the unmixed (R2 = 0.901 ± 0.015) and mixed models (R2 = 0.877 ± 0.019), while the RF and SVM models also performed well (R2 consistently above 0.75). Cabernet Sauvignon also showed promising performance, with the GAM unmixed (R2 = 0.824 ± 0.028) and mixed models (R2 = 0.763 ± 0.030) achieving the highest accuracies, while the SVM and random forest models fell further behind. Shiraz exhibited lower fits, ranging from the GAM unmixed model (R2 = 0.679 ± 0.026) to the RF mixed model (R2 = 0.510 ± 0.077). The RMSE and MAE values showed minor variations across modelling approaches within each cultivar, generally differing by less than 0.01–0.02 Kc units, except for Chardonnay. The unmixed GAM in Chardonnay produced the highest errors (RMSE = 0.090, MAE = 0.067), despite having a strong overall fit. Furthermore, model predictions on independent data for dates without Paso Panel data showed that RF presented the most stable predictions following the phenological behaviour of vines, including a Kc decrease in the late season (Figure 5). These results indicate that absolute prediction errors remained relatively consistent across algorithms. Additional validation with the LI-710 evapotranspiration sensor corroborated the reliability of model predictions. Model predictions and sensor-derived Kcs showed good agreement until the Cabernet Sauvignon block reached full canopy (Figure 5).

Figure 5.
Time-series of mean observed and predicted crop coefficients (Kc) for testing data in three grapevine cultivars. Prediction results are shown for both mixed (blue lines) and unmixed (red lines) vegetation indices. Paso Panel mean values are represented by black triangles and LI-710 data by circles. Panels show (a) GAM, (b) RF, and (c) SVM predictions to Shiraz’s seasonal Kc with Paso Panel measurements. (d) GAM, (e) RF, and (f) SVM predictions to Cabernet Sauvignon’s seasonal Kc with Paso Panel and LI-710 measurements. (g) GAM, (h) RF, and (i) SVM predictions to Chardonnay with Paso Panel measurements.

Table 4.
Performance (mean ± SD) of the modelling approaches: generalised additive model (GAM), random forest (RF), and support vector machine (SVM) fitted with mixed vs. unmixed indices for the Shiraz, Cabernet Sauvignon, and Chardonnay cultivars. The results are presented as the mean ± SD (across 100 runs with random splits). The reported metrics are the coefficient of determination (R2), root-mean-square error (RMSE), and mean absolute error (MAE).

Direct comparison with the Paso Panel’s Kc values further confirmed the validity of the modelling results (Table 5). The monthly means from the Paso Panel’s Kc and predictions (mean ± SD across 100 runs from different subsets of data) were in close agreement for the three cultivars, reproducing both the level and the seasonal trajectory (Figure 5). For Shiraz, predictions increased from Kc~0.32 in October to ~0.58 in December–January and declined to Kc~0.45 in March. The model means were typically within 0.01–0.04 of the observed values in Nov–Jan and within 0.03–0.05 thereafter. Cabernet Sauvignon’s predictions started around Kc~0.35 in October, peaked at ~0.70 in December–January, and remained high at Kc~0.67 in the late season. The modelled means matched within 0.00–0.04 in all months. Chardonnay’s predictions ranged from Kc~0.28 to 0.35, which is slightly off from the Paso Panel data (0.27), except for the random forest models (Kc~0.28). The models for Chardonnay achieved better accuracy later in January and February (Kc~0.65–0.67). Across cultivars, unmixing generally improved agreement during green-up to peak (November–January), while differences between mixed and unmixed inputs were minor near the summer plateau (February–March). Predictions showed a modest uncertainty (typical SD ≤ 0.05).

Table 5.
Mean Paso Panel (PP) and LI-710 flux tower (ET) measurements and modelled crop coefficients (Kcs) for validation data (n = number of samples) in three cultivars (Shiraz, Cabernet Sauvignon, and Chardonnay). Model approach refers to generalised additive model (GAM), random forest (RF) model, and support vector machine (SVM) model, employing mixed (mx) and unmixed (unmx) data.

3.5. Contribution of Spectral Unmixing and Choice of VIs

The application of spectral unmixing had an overall positive effect on model performance, although the magnitude of improvement was more evident in Shiraz compared to Cabernet Sauvignon and Chardonnay (Table 4). For Shiraz, unmixing increased model accuracy across all three approaches, showing that R2 values between mixed and unmixed improved from 0.670 to 0.697 in GAM, from 0.510 to 0.625 in RF, and from 0.512 to 0.615 in SVM, with similar reductions in the RMSE and MAE. In Cabernet Sauvignon, although unmixed models achieved higher R2 values in the GAM and SVM models, their effect was not as prominent for the RF model. In the case of Chardonnay, the unmixed indices only improved the GAM (R2 = 0.901 vs. 0.877) and RF (R2 = 0.814 vs. 0.787) models, but not the SVM model.

The predictions of the Kc showed varying improvement throughout the season, with similar patterns observed among different cultivars and models (Figure 5). The benefit of unmixed indices was most noticeable during the early stage (October) and late stage (February–March) of the season for all the cultivars (Figure 3). In the early season, when cover crops were greener, mixed models tended to overestimate the Kc. Conversely, in most models, mixed models underestimated the Kc in the late season when cover crops were absent or dry. These patterns were particularly evident for Shiraz and Chardonnay. During the mid-season, unmixed and mixed models exhibited similar performance and little difference in accuracy.

Model selection revealed that a core group of vegetation indices was consistently retained across cultivars and modelling approaches (Table 6). The GI and GNDVI were present in almost every model, while the RENDVI2, NDWI, CIred, NDRE, and REP were also frequently selected, particularly in models using unmixed indices. Among the unmixed models, the indices most often retained were the CIred, GI, GNDVI, NDRE, NDWI, RENDVI2, and REP. Most of these indices considered the red-edge band as part of their calculation. In contrast, the mixed models presented a greater variety in indices. Most indices showed temporal agreement with the evolution of the Kc, with the exceptions of the RECAI, NDWI, and SAVI. The disagreement with the RECAI could be associated with the chlorophyll content, which may remain relatively stable even after véraison and harvest. In the case of the NDWI and SAVI during the first months, the major exposure of soil underneath the vines (this area is mainly free of cover crops throughout the season) and the high soil moisture associated with rains and irrigation could have influenced the values of these two indices.

Table 6.
Vegetation indices selected after the model selection process for the generalised additive model (GAM), random forest (RF), and support vector machine (SVM) classifier in relation to the use of the unmixed and mixed indices and the cultivars Shiraz, Cabernet Sauvignon, and Chardonnay.

3.6. Projection to Sentinel-2 Rasters

Applying the random forest model with unmixed data to the Sentinel-2 stacks and consecutive post hoc calibration produced spatially coherent maps (10 m resolution) in accordance with the Kc expected in the mid- and late-season stages (Figure 6). In January (Figure 6A), the Kc showed higher values ranging between 0.55 and 0.60, whereas in March (Figure 6B), a decline in Kc was observed, with values ranging from 0.42 to 0.5. These results closely align with the Paso Panel’s Kc registered in January (0.589 ± 0.067) and March (0.443 ± 0.086), demonstrating that r-pixel projections capture both the phenological patterns at the block scale.

Figure 6.
Vineyard-level spatial patterns of Shiraz Kc on 9 January (A) and 23 March (B) predicted using the random forest model.

Computations for Cabernet Sauvignon’s Kc on November 30 showed coherent spatial structure for both approaches, with predictions from the RF model being closer to the LI-710 data registration on that date (0.64). Both approaches highlighted high Kcs toward the east sector, showing lower values to the west, an area that was affected by frost in 2023. However, our approach predicted Kc in the range of 0.54 to 0.68 (Figure 7A), which were closer to LI-710 sensor results than the calculations made with the empirical relationship provided in [24], which showed a broader range from 0.24 to 0.81(Figure 7B).

Figure 7.
Spatial patterns of Cabernet Sauvignon Kc predicted for 30 November 2023 using a random forest model with: (A) unmixed indices and (B) the equation proposed in [24].

4. Discussion

Our results showed that spectral unmixing of Sentinel-2 VIs can improve the accuracy of Kc in vineyards, facilitating an approach that can be applied to different cultivars and time frames. The importance of our approach is most critical when cover crops confound early- and late-season spectral signals. Below, we discuss the steps taken, together with practical limitations and avenues for improvement.

4.1. Canopy Area Model

Estimating the canopy area based on the NDVI showed consistent results for Shiraz and Cabernet Sauvignon and proved to be reliable for Chardonnay. These results suggest that the canopy area models developed in this study may be applicable to other winegrape cultivars, provided that their canopy growth and NDVI time series follow similar patterns. However, predictions during winter and spring months, when cover crops are growing at their peak rates (e.g., October in our case), require special attention. The logistic model developed to correct the overprediction of canopy area effectively lowered the predictions for this initial growth stage. Unfortunately, we lacked image or field data to validate the predictions. Acquiring early-season canopy area data could improve the accuracy of the cover area model and enhance the subsequent spectral unmixing procedure.

4.2. Crop Coefficient Model

Random forest and SVM models could be considered more reliable options than GAM, despite the high accuracies achieved by GAM models in all cultivars. Both the RF and SVM models showed accurate predictions, with RF exhibiting greater stability across the time series, particularly during the late season. This pattern may be due to RF’s robustness to outliers, achieved through the averaging of multiple decision trees [72]. This averaging also makes them less sensitive to overfitting [73]. The SVM models performed comparably to RF in most cases, reinforcing their value as complementary approaches. While the GAM models demonstrated the highest apparent accuracies, particularly for Chardonnay, these values appeared inflated. The flexibility of the GAM models in capturing nonlinear relationships can lead to overfitting, especially when predictors are collinear or small sample sizes are used, resulting in high R2 values that do not necessarily reflect genuine improvements in predictive accuracy.

Importantly, the indices most frequently selected in the RF and SVM models were based on red-edge bands, reflecting their strong sensitivity to chlorophyll content. Nevertheless, indices based only on RGB and NIR bands also proved relevant, likely because their finer spatial resolution (10 m) allowed for more detailed detection of pigment concentration patterns. Moreover, the inclusion of SWIR bands is indicative of the presence of moisture within vegetation, highlighting the importance of vegetation water status in explaining Kc variability.

4.3. Effectiveness of Spectral Unmixing

The application of linear spectral unmixing improved model performance by separating the spectral responses of the grapevine canopy and background elements. This separation mitigated the distorting effect of cover crops on vegetation indices. Cover crops in South Australia inflate vegetation indices at early phenological stages, when vines are developing and cover crops are greener, and depress indices during late stages and senescence, when cover crops become dry or absent. By isolating the canopy signal, unmixing enabled the use of indices more closely related to grapevines than cover crops, especially in the early- and late-season stages, yielding more robust and consistent Kc predictions across phenological stages. This advantage could be observed when compared to the results obtained using the equation provided by Campos et al. [24] in the early season, which tended to overinflate Kc values. Importantly, we note that the same (Campos) study was conducted in vineyards with bare soil inter-rows, using data from days with minimal soil evaporation when no vine water stress was observed, thereby reducing noise and mixed-pixel effects. Hence, it is plausible that our approach can handle scenarios with greater vineyard variability.

The application of spectral unmixing improved model performance to varying degrees across different cultivars. In Shiraz, unmixing was especially effective, resulting in unmixed indices consistently lower than mixed values in October. This response separation produced a canopy signal that better tracked the Kc evolution, explaining the higher accuracy achieved by the unmixed GAM, RF, and SVM models. In Chardonnay, the effect of unmixing was weaker than in Shiraz. Although unmixed indices were lower than mixed values in October, later dates were not always lower compared to predictions from the mixed models. Nevertheless, the GAM and RF models still achieved higher accuracy with unmixed inputs over the season. Both the unmixed and mixed model predictions for Cabernet Sauvignon were similar. In the case of the SVM model, higher values in October were observed for unmixed indices, which may be related to the more vigorous and greener canopy of Cabernet Sauvignon compared to the understory. In this situation, unmixing elevated NDVI values leads to only moderate improvements in model performance.

The unmixed vegetation indices were subject to several outliers, especially during the early season when the cover crops were substantial. The variability in the composition of cover crops likely affected the unmixing procedure since the vineyard mid-rows occasionally contained vegetation different to that present at the cover crop reference points. Annual grasses primarily dominated the cover crops but were occasionally accompanied by broad-leaf weeds or more vigorous grass species with denser or greener biomass, potentially influencing the spectral signal of the mid-rows. Furthermore, bare soil was not included as an endmember in the present study; however, its influence should be considered in vineyards without cover crops or during late-season periods when cover crops have fully senesced. Future studies should carefully assess patterns of mid-row vegetation, considering the mix of species, and the influence of bare soil and other potential endmembers.

Future improvements to our analysis may involve advanced separation techniques. For example, [20] proposed combining multispectral and structural masking from high-resolution UAV imagery, using canopy height and NDVI thresholds to effectively isolate pure vine canopy pixels, while excluding soil, inter-row vegetation, and underperforming vines. Similar approaches could be applied to high-resolution commercial satellite RGB imagery (Airbus, Jilin/Gaofen). Another promising tool is the Latent Diffusion Super Resolution model for Sentinel-2 (LDSR-S2) [81], which enhances spatial resolution from 10 m to 2.5 m while preserving spectral consistency, and provides pixel-wise uncertainty maps. In contrast to traditional pan-sharpening, LDSR-S2 supports spectrally consistent super-resolution across all bands, enabling more accurate VI computation directly from Sentinel products. This approach would allow vineyard endmembers to be accurately classified, and their specific spectral reflectance determined.

5. Conclusions

This study demonstrates that machine learning models based on vegetation indices derived through spectral unmixing can effectively predict crop coefficients (Kc) in vineyards. Random forest models provided the most stable and reliable performance, while SVM models were less stable with independent data, and GAM models achieved higher but potentially inflated accuracies. The application of spectral unmixing improved model accuracy, especially in Shiraz and Chardonnay during the early and late canopy stages when pixel variability was greater due to inter-row variability in terms of cover crop and bare soil. Red-edge and SWIR indices proved relevant in model selection due to their capacity to capture canopy chlorophyll and moisture dynamics. These findings highlight the potential of open-source remote sensing and machine learning to provide scalable, cost-effective tools for irrigation scheduling and sustainable vineyard management.

Supplementary Materials

The following supporting information can be downloaded at: https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/rs17193365/s1, Figure S1: Season trajectories for mixed (blue) and unmixed (red) NDVI and NDRE indices in Shiraz (A,B), Cabernet Sauvignon (C,D), and Chardonnay (E,F).

Author Contributions

V.P. conceived the initial concept of the research. V.P. and D.R.G.-T. designed the research. D.R.G.-T. and V.P. acquired the UAV remote sensing data. D.R.G.-T. processed and analysed the data, and, together with V.P., interpreted the results. D.R.G.-T. and H.L. prepared the manuscript. V.P., D.R.G.-T., H.L., C.M.D. and B.O. contributed to the review and editing of the manuscript. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.

Funding

The authors acknowledge the funding contribution of Primary Industries and Regions South Australia (PIRSA; Grant ID: AGF-17639418) and Athena IR-Tech. We also thank Treasury Wine Estates for their in-kind support and access to their vineyards used in this trial.

Data Availability Statement

The dataset is available on request from the authors.

Acknowledgments

The authors are grateful to Sami Rifai for providing technical information about Google Earth Engine. We are grateful to the vineyard growers and managers who facilitated the data collection, as well as members of the Pagay lab who assisted with the fieldwork, with special thanks to Caoyang (Wesley) Wang.

Conflicts of Interest

The authors declare no conflicts of interest.

References

Chartzoulakis, K.; Bertaki, M. Sustainable water management in agriculture under climate change. Agric. Agric. Sci. Procedia 2015, 4, 88–98. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Dai, A. Drought under global warming: A review. Wiley Interdiscip. Rev. Clim. Change 2011, 2, 45–65. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Harrison, M.T.; Cullen, B.R.; Rawnsley, R.P. Modelling the sensitivity of agricultural systems to climate change and extreme climatic events. Agric. Syst. 2016, 148, 135–148. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Van Leeuwen, C.; Destrac-Irvine, A.; Dubernet, M.; Duchêne, E.; Gowdy, M.; Marguerit, E.; Pieri, P.; Parker, A.; De Resseguier, L.; Ollat, N. An update on the impact of climate change in viticulture and potential adaptations. Agronomy 2019, 9, 514. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Romero, P.; Navarro, J.M.; Ordaz, P.B. Towards a sustainable viticulture: The combination of deficit irrigation strategies and agroecological practices in Mediterranean vineyards. A review and update. Agric. Water Manag. 2022, 259, 107216. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Water Use on Australian Farms (2019–20 Financial Year). Available online: https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/industry/agriculture/water-use-australian-farms/2019-20 (accessed on 8 August 2024).

Sanchez, L.; Sams, B.; Alsina, M.; Hinds, N.; Klein, L.; Dokoozlian, N. Improving vineyard water use efficiency and yield with variable rate irrigation in California. Adv. Anim. Biosci. 2017, 8, 574–577. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Gu, Z.; Qi, Z.; Burghate, R.; Yuan, S.; Jiao, X.; Xu, J. Irrigation scheduling approaches and applications: A review. J. Irrig. Drain. Eng. 2020, 146, 04020007. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Schlank, R.; Kidman, C.M.; Gautam, D.; Jeffery, D.W.; Pagay, V. Data-driven irrigation scheduling increases the crop water use efficiency of Cabernet Sauvignon grapevines. Irrig. Sci. 2024, 42, 29–44. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Mirás-Avalos, J.M.; Araujo, E.S. Optimization of vineyard water management: Challenges, strategies, and perspectives. Water 2021, 13, 746. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Zhang, J.; Guan, K.; Peng, B.; Jiang, C.; Zhou, W.; Yang, Y.; Pan, M.; Franz, T.E.; Heeren, D.M.; Rudnick, D.R. Challenges and opportunities in precision irrigation decision-support systems for center pivots. Environ. Res. Lett. 2021, 16, 053003. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

López-Urrea, R.; Montoro, A.; Mañas, F.; López-Fuster, P.; Fereres, E. Evapotranspiration and crop coefficients from lysimeter measurements of mature ‘Tempranillo’ wine grapes. Agric. Water Manag. 2012, 112, 13–20. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Williams, L.; Phene, C.; Grimes, D.; Trout, T. Water use of mature Thompson Seedless grapevines in California. Irrig. Sci. 2003, 22, 11–18. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Allen, R.G.; Pereira, L.S.; Raes, D.; Smith, M. Crop Evapotranspiration-Guidelines for Computing Crop Water Requirements-FAO Irrigation and Drainage Paper 56; FAO: Rome, Italy, 1998. [Google Scholar]

Bramley, R.; Hamilton, R. Understanding variability in winegrape production systems: 1. Within vineyard variation in yield over several vintages. Aust. J. Grape Wine Res. 2004, 10, 32–45. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Pereira, L.S.; Paredes, P.; Melton, F.; Johnson, L.; Mota, M.; Wang, T. Prediction of crop coefficients from fraction of ground cover and height: Practical application to vegetable, field and fruit crops with focus on parameterization. Agric. Water Manag. 2021, 252, 106663. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Williams, L.E.; Levin, A.D.; Fidelibus, M.W. Crop coefficients (Kc) developed from canopy shaded area in California vineyards. Agric. Water Manag. 2022, 271, 107771. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Using the Paso Panel to Quickly Measure the Canopy Shaded Area and Estimate Vineyard Irrigation Crop Coefficients. Available online: https://ucanr.edu/county-office/county-san-luis-obispo/crop-coefficients-paso-panel (accessed on 25 April 2025).

Burba, G. Eddy Covariance Method for Scientific, Industrial, Agricultural and Regulatory Applications: A Field Book on Measuring Ecosystem Gas Exchange and Areal Emission Rates; LI-COR Biosciences: Bad Homburg vor der Höhe, Germany, 2013. [Google Scholar]

Gautam, D.; Ostendorf, B.; Pagay, V. Estimation of grapevine crop coefficient using a multispectral camera on an unmanned aerial vehicle. Remote Sens. 2021, 13, 2639. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Marinello, F.; Pezzuolo, A.; Chiumenti, A.; Sartori, L. Technical analysis of unmanned aerial vehicles (drones) for agricultural applications. In Proceedings of the 15th International Scientific Conference: Engineering for Rural Development, Jelgava, Latvia, 25–27 May 2016; pp. 870–875. [Google Scholar]

Fernández, J. Plant-based sensing to monitor water stress: Applicability to commercial orchards. Agric. Water Manag. 2014, 142, 99–109. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Berra, E.F.; Fontana, D.C.; Yin, F.; Breunig, F.M. Harmonized Landsat and Sentinel-2 data with Google Earth Engine. Remote Sens. 2024, 16, 2695. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Campos, I.; Neale, C.M.; Calera, A.; Balbontín, C.; González-Piqueras, J. Assessing satellite-based basal crop coefficients for irrigated grapes (Vitis vinifera L.). Agric. Water Manag. 2010, 98, 45–54. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Montgomery, J.; Hornbuckle, J.; Hume, I.; Vleeshouwer, J. IrriSAT—Weather based scheduling and benchmarking technology. In Proceedings of the 17th ASA Conference, Hobart, Australia, 21–24 September 2015; pp. 20–24. [Google Scholar]

Giovos, R.; Tassopoulos, D.; Kalivas, D.; Lougkos, N.; Priovolou, A. Remote sensing vegetation indices in viticulture: A critical review. Agriculture 2021, 11, 457. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Balbontín, C.; Campos, I.; Odi-Lara, M.; Ibacache, A.; Calera, A. Irrigation performance assessment in table grape using the reflectance-based crop coefficient. Remote Sens. 2017, 9, 1276. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Johnson, L.F.; Trout, T.J. Satellite NDVI assisted monitoring of vegetable crop evapotranspiration in California’s San Joaquin Valley. Remote Sens. 2012, 4, 439–455. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Matese, A.; Baraldi, R.; Berton, A.; Cesaraccio, C.; Di Gennaro, S.F.; Duce, P.; Facini, O.; Mameli, M.G.; Piga, A.; Zaldei, A. Estimation of water stress in grapevines using proximal and remote sensing methods. Remote Sens. 2018, 10, 114. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Reyes-González, A.; Kjaersgaard, J.; Trooien, T.; Hay, C.; Ahiablame, L. Estimation of crop evapotranspiration using satellite remote sensing-Based Vegetation Index. Adv. Meteorol. 2018, 2018, 4525021. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Vanino, S.; Pulighe, G.; Nino, P.; De Michele, C.; Falanga Bolognesi, S.; D’Urso, G. Estimation of evapotranspiration and crop coefficients of tendone vineyards using multi-sensor remote sensing data in a Mediterranean environment. Remote Sens. 2015, 7, 14708–14730. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Prabhakara, K.; Hively, W.D.; McCarty, G.W. Evaluating the relationship between biomass, percent groundcover and remote sensing indices across six winter cover crop fields in Maryland, United States. Int. J. Appl. Earth Obs. Geoinf. 2015, 39, 88–102. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Archer, E.; Strauss, H. Effect of plant density on root distribution of three-year-old grafted 99 Richter grapevines. S. Afr. J. Enol. Vitic. 1985, 6, 25–30. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Gautam, D.; Pagay, V. A review of current and potential applications of remote sensing to study the water status of horticultural crops. Agronomy 2020, 10, 140. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Rouault, P.; Courault, D.; Flamain, F.; Pouget, G.; Doussan, C.; Lopez-Lozano, R.; McCabe, M.; Debolini, M. High-resolution satellite imagery to assess orchard characteristics impacting water use. Agric. Water Manag. 2024, 295, 108763. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Palazzi, F.; Biddoccu, M.; Borgogno Mondino, E.C.; Cavallo, E. Use of remotely sensed data for the evaluation of inter-row cover intensity in vineyards. Remote Sens. 2022, 15, 41. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Hall, A.; Louis, J.; Lamb, D.W. Low-resolution remotely sensed images of winegrape vineyards map spatial variability in planimetric canopy area instead of leaf area index. Aust. J. Grape Wine Res. 2008, 14, 9–17. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Ferreiro-Arman, M.; Da Costa, J.-P.; Homayouni, S.; Martin-Herrero, J. Hyperspectral image analysis for precision viticulture. In Proceedings of the International Conference Image Analysis and Recognition, Póvoa de Varzim, Portugal, 18–20 September 2006; pp. 730–741. [Google Scholar]

Cavalli, R.M. Spatial validation of spectral unmixing results: A systematic review. Remote Sens. 2023, 15, 2822. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Keshava, N.; Mustard, J.F. Spectral unmixing. IEEE Signal Process. Mag. 2002, 19, 44–57. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Quintano, C.; Fernández-Manso, A.; Shimabukuro, Y.E.; Pereira, G. Spectral unmixing. Int. J. Remote Sens. 2012, 33, 5307–5340. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Borsoi, R.A.; Imbiriba, T.; Bermudez, J.C.M.; Richard, C.; Chanussot, J.; Drumetz, L.; Tourneret, J.-Y.; Zare, A.; Jutten, C. Spectral variability in hyperspectral data unmixing: A comprehensive review. IEEE Geosci. Remote Sens. Mag. 2021, 9, 223–270. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Adams, J.B.; Smith, M.O.; Gillespie, A.R. Simple models for complex natural surfaces-A strategy for the hyperspectral era of remote sensing. In Proceedings of the 12th Canadian Symposium on Remote Sensing Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, Vancouver, BC, Canada, 10–14 July 1989. [Google Scholar]

Iland, P.; Gago, P.; Caillard, A.; Dry, P.R. Australian Wine: Styles and Tastes, People and Places; Patrick Iland Promotions Pty Ltd.: Adelaide, South Australia, 2017. [Google Scholar]

Region Snapshot 2023–24—Barossa Valley. Available online: https://www.wineaustralia.com/getmedia/cd4203e4-0326-48c7-9516-2287a26887b0/MI_Barossa-Valley-Region-Snapshot-2023-24.pdf (accessed on 30 August 2025).

Williams, L.; Ayars, J. Grapevine water use and the crop coefficient are linear functions of the shaded area measured beneath the canopy. Agric. For. Meteorol. 2005, 132, 201–211. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Sentinel-2 Cloud Masking with s2cloudles. Available online: https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/tutorials/community/sentinel-2-s2cloudless (accessed on 4 April 2025).

Extracting Raster Values for Points. Available online: https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/tutorials/community/extract-raster-values-for-points (accessed on 4 April 2025).

Misra, G.; Cawkwell, F.; Wingler, A. Status of phenological research using Sentinel-2 data: A review. Remote Sens. 2020, 12, 2760. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Laroche-Pinel, E.; Albughdadi, M.; Duthoit, S.; Chéret, V.; Rousseau, J.; Clenet, H. Understanding vine hyperspectral signature through different irrigation plans: A first step to monitor vineyard water status. Remote Sens. 2021, 13, 536. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Tassopoulos, D.; Kalivas, D.; Giovos, R.; Lougkos, N.; Priovolou, A. Sentinel-2 imagery monitoring vine growth related to topography in a protected designation of origin region. Agriculture 2021, 11, 785. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Gilabert, M.; González-Piqueras, J.; Garcıa-Haro, F.; Meliá, J. A generalized soil-adjusted vegetation index. Remote Sens. Environ. 2002, 82, 303–310. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Huete, A.R. A soil-adjusted vegetation index (SAVI). Remote Sens. Environ. 1988, 25, 295–309. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Rouse, J. Monitoring vegetation systems in the great plains with ERTS. In Proceedings of the Third NASA Earth Resources Technology Satellite Symposium, Washington, DC, USA, 10–14 December 1973; pp. 309–317. [Google Scholar]

Jiang, Z.; Huete, A.R.; Didan, K.; Miura, T. Development of a two-band enhanced vegetation index without a blue band. Remote Sens. Environ. 2008, 112, 3833–3845. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Gitelson, A.A.; Kaufman, Y.J.; Merzlyak, M.N. Use of a green channel in remote sensing of global vegetation from EOS-MODIS. Remote Sens. Environ. 1996, 58, 289–298. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Sripada, R.P.; Heiniger, R.W.; White, J.G.; Meijer, A.D. Aerial color infrared photography for determining early in-season nitrogen requirements in corn. Agron. J. 2006, 98, 968–977. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Gitelson, A.; Merzlyak, M.N. Spectral reflectance changes associated with autumn senescence of Aesculus hippocastanum L. and Acer platanoides L. leaves. Spectral features and relation to chlorophyll estimation. J. Plant Physiol. 1994, 143, 286–292. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Zarco-Tejada, P.J.; Miller, J.R.; Morales, A.; Berjón, A.; Agüera, J. Hyperspectral indices and model simulation for chlorophyll estimation in open-canopy tree crops. Remote Sens. Environ. 2004, 90, 463–476. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Frampton, W.J.; Dash, J.; Watmough, G.; Milton, E.J. Evaluating the capabilities of Sentinel-2 for quantitative estimation of biophysical variables in vegetation. ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens. 2013, 82, 83–92. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Guyot, G.; Baret, F. Utilisation de la haute resolution spectrale pour suivre l’etat des couverts vegetaux. In Proceedings of the Spectral Signatures of Objects in Remote Sensing, Aussois, France, 18–22 January 1988; p. 279. [Google Scholar]

Gao, B.-C. NDWI—A normalized difference water index for remote sensing of vegetation liquid water from space. Remote Sens. Environ. 1996, 58, 257–266. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Hardisky, M.A.; Klemas, V.; Smart, R. The influence of soil salinity, growth form, and leaf moisture on the spectral radiance of Spartina alterniflora canopies. Photogramm. Eng. Remote Sens. 1983, 49, 77–83. [Google Scholar]

Rock, B.; Vogelmann, J.; Williams, D.; Vogelmann, A.; Hoshizaki, T. Remote detection of forest damage: Plant responses to stress may have spectral “signatures” that could be used to map, monitor, and measure forest damage. BioScience 1986, 36, 439–445. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Qi, J.; Chehbouni, A.; Huete, A.R.; Kerr, Y.H.; Sorooshian, S. A modified soil adjusted vegetation index. Remote Sens. Environ. 1994, 48, 119–126. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

NDVI, Mapping a Function Over a Collection, Quality Mosaicking. Available online: https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/tutorials/tutorial_api_06 (accessed on 4 July 2024).

Cribari-Neto, F.; Zeileis, A. Beta regression in R. J. Stat. Softw. 2010, 34, 1–24. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Adams, J.B.; Smith, M.O.; Johnson, P.E. Spectral mixture modeling: A new analysis of rock and soil types at the Viking Lander 1 site. J. Geophys. Res. Solid. Earth 1986, 91, 8098–8112. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Xu, F.; Somers, B. Unmixing-based Sentinel-2 downscaling for urban land cover mapping. ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens. 2021, 171, 133–154. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Kowalski, K.; Senf, C.; Hostert, P.; Pflugmacher, D. Characterizing spring phenology of temperate broadleaf forests using Landsat and Sentinel-2 time series. Int. J. Appl. Earth Obs. Geoinf. 2020, 92, 102172. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Pedersen, E.J.; Miller, D.L.; Simpson, G.L.; Ross, N. Hierarchical generalized additive models in ecology: An introduction with mgcv. PeerJ 2019, 7, e6876. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Belgiu, M.; Drăguţ, L. Random forest in remote sensing: A review of applications and future directions. ISPRS J. Photogramm. Remote Sens. 2016, 114, 24–31. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Fox, E.W.; Hill, R.A.; Leibowitz, S.G.; Olsen, A.R.; Thornbrugh, D.J.; Weber, M.H. Assessing the accuracy and stability of variable selection methods for random forest modeling in ecology. Environ. Monit. Assess. 2017, 189, 316. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Suykens, J.A. Support vector machines: A nonlinear modelling and control perspective. Eur. J. Control. 2001, 7, 311–327. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Egipto, R.; Aquino, A.; Costa, J.M.; Andújar, J.M. Predicting crop evapotranspiration under non-standard conditions using machine learning algorithms, a case study for Vitis vinifera L. cv Tempranillo. Agronomy 2023, 13, 2463. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Tan, X.-H.; Bi, W.-H.; Hou, X.-L.; Wang, W. Reliability analysis using radial basis function networks and support vector machines. Comput. Geotech. 2011, 38, 178–186. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Ramezan, C.A. Transferability of recursive feature elimination (RFE)-derived feature sets for support vector machine land cover classification. Remote Sens. 2022, 14, 6218. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Burba, G.; Miller, B.; Fratini, G.; Inkenbrandt, P.C.; Xu, L. Simple direct evapotranspiration measurements with a new cost-optimized ET flux Sensor. In Proceedings of the 104th Annual AMS Meeting 2024, Baltimore, MD, USA, 28 January–1 February 2024; p. 431027. [Google Scholar]

Peddinti, S.R.; Kisekka, I. Evaluation of the LI-710 evapotranspiration sensor in comparison to full eddy covariance for monitoring energy fluxes in perennial and annual crops. Agric. Water Manag. 2025, 313, 109501. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Hernández-Ordoñez, E.; Cruz-Alvarez, O.; Orozco-Avitia, J.A.; Hernández-Rodríguez, O.A.; Alonso-Villegas, R.; Jacobo-Cuellar, J.L.; Gardea-Bejar, A.A.; Ojeda-Barrios, D.L. Physiological responses of Cabernet Sauvignon to dividing canopies in the Chihuahuan Desert. Agriculture 2024, 14, 2101. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Donike, S.; Aybar, C.; Gómez-Chova, L.; Kalaitzis, F. Trustworthy super-resolution of multispectral sentinel-2 imagery with latent diffusion. IEEE J. Sel. Top. Appl. Earth Obs. Remote Sens. 2025, 18, 6940–6952. [Google Scholar] [CrossRef] [Scilit]

Figure 1.
Vineyards locations in Barossa Valley (34°32′S, 138°57′E) and Eden Valley (34.641°S, 139.098°E), South Australia; (a) sampling points Shiraz (in yellow, 34°29′47.7″S, 138°54′12.8″E) and Cabernet Sauvignon (in blue, 34°30′03.9″S, 138°54′05.3″E) in Barossa Valley; and (b) Chardonnay (in red, 34°37′19.8″S, 139°02′17.8″E) in Eden Valley.

Figure 2.
Flowchart showing data acquisition and modelling used in this study.

Figure 3.
Paso Panel field-measured Kc, obtained at sample points in Shiraz block for early (19 October), mid (12 January), and late (23 March) season.

Figure 4.
Model-derived canopy cover (green lines, ±SD in blue lines) fitted from NDVI using beta/logistic regression models, compared with satellite-derived canopy cover (black triangles) at image acquisition dates. Panels show (a) Shiraz, (b) Cabernet Sauvignon, and (c) Chardonnay.

Figure 5.
Time-series of mean observed and predicted crop coefficients (Kc) for testing data in three grapevine cultivars. Prediction results are shown for both mixed (blue lines) and unmixed (red lines) vegetation indices. Paso Panel mean values are represented by black triangles and LI-710 data by circles. Panels show (a) GAM, (b) RF, and (c) SVM predictions to Shiraz’s seasonal Kc with Paso Panel measurements. (d) GAM, (e) RF, and (f) SVM predictions to Cabernet Sauvignon’s seasonal Kc with Paso Panel and LI-710 measurements. (g) GAM, (h) RF, and (i) SVM predictions to Chardonnay with Paso Panel measurements.

Figure 6.
Vineyard-level spatial patterns of Shiraz Kc on 9 January (A) and 23 March (B) predicted using the random forest model.

Figure 7.
Spatial patterns of Cabernet Sauvignon Kc predicted for 30 November 2023 using a random forest model with: (A) unmixed indices and (B) the equation proposed in [24].

Table 1.
List of spectral bands used in random forest classifications.

| Bands | Description | Central Wavelength (nm)

| B2 | Blue | 490

| B3 | Green (G) | 560

| B4 | Red (R) | 665

| B5 | Red-edge (RE) | 705

| B8 | Near-infrared (NIR) | 742

| B11, B12 | Short Wave Infrared (SWIR) | 1610, 2190

Table 2.
List of vegetation indices used in random forest classifications.

| Index | Formula | Index Purpose | Reference

| NDVI | 𝑁𝐼𝑅−𝑅𝑁𝐼𝑅+𝑅NIR−RNIR+R | Canopy vigour | [54]

| EVI2 | 2.5×(𝑁𝐼𝑅−𝑅)𝑁𝐼𝑅+2.4×𝑅+1.02.5×(NIR−R)NIR+2.4×R+1.0 | Canopy vigour | [55]

| GNDVI | 𝑁𝐼𝑅−𝐺𝑁𝐼𝑅+𝐺NIR−GNIR+G | Vigour/chlorophyll | [56]

| GI | 𝐺𝑅GR | Canopy vigour | [57]

| NDRE | 𝑁𝐼𝑅−𝑅𝐸𝑁𝐼𝑅+𝑅𝐸NIR−RENIR+RE | Chlorophyll sensitivity | [58]

| CIRE | 𝑁𝐼𝑅𝑅𝐸1−1NIRRE1−1 | Chlorophyll sensitivity | [59]

| IRECI | 𝑁𝐼𝑅−𝑅𝐸1(𝑅𝐸2/𝑅𝐸3)NIR−RE1(RE2/RE3) | Chlorophyll sensitivity | [60]

| RECAI | 𝑅𝐸1𝑅𝐸3RE1RE3 | Chlorophyll sensitivity | [51]

| REP | 700+40×(𝑅670+𝑅7802−𝑅720)𝑅740−𝑅720700+40×(R670+R7802−R720)R740−R720 | Chlorophyll sensitivity | [61]

| RENDVI2 | 𝑅𝐸2−𝑅𝑅𝐸2+𝑅RE2−RRE2+R | Chlorophyll sensitivity | [51]

| NDWI | 𝑁𝐼𝑅−𝑆𝑊𝐼𝑅1𝑁𝐼𝑅+𝑆𝑊𝐼𝑅1NIR−SWIR1NIR+SWIR1 | Water | [62]

| NDII | 𝑁𝐼𝑅−𝑆𝑊𝐼𝑅1𝑁𝐼𝑅+𝑆𝑊𝐼𝑅1NIR−SWIR1NIR+SWIR1 | Water | [63]

| MSI | 𝑆𝑊𝐼𝑅1𝑁𝐼𝑅SWIR1NIR | Water | [64]

| SAVI | (𝑁𝐼𝑅−𝑅)(𝑁𝐼𝑅+𝑅+0.5)×1.5(NIR−R)(NIR+R+0.5)×1.5 | Soil correction | [53]

| SAVIRED | (𝑁𝐼𝑅−𝑅𝐸1) (𝑁𝐼𝑅+𝑅𝐸1+0.5)×1.5(NIR−RE1) (NIR+RE1+0.5)×1.5 | Soil correction | [52]

| MSAVI | 2×𝑁𝐼𝑅+1−(2×𝑁𝐼𝑅+1)2−8×(𝑁𝐼𝑅−𝑅)−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−−√ 22×NIR+1−(2×NIR+1)2−8×(NIR−R) 2 | Soil correction | [65]

R: red band (~665 nm); G: green band (~560 nm); NIR: near-infrared (~783–842 nm); RE1/RE2/RE3: red-edge bands (705, 740, 783 nm, Sentinel-2); SWIR1: ~1610 nm; SWIR2: ~2190 nm. R670, R700, R720, R740, and R780 refer to reflectance at respective wavelengths (nm).

Table 3.
Mean ± SD of Kc from Paso Panel measurements in three cultivars: Shiraz, Cabernet Sauvignon, and Chardonnay. n = number of sampling points per timepoint.

| Date | Cultivar | n | Paso Panel Kc

| 11 October 2023 | Cabernet | 25 | 0.348 ± 0.088

| 18 October 2023 | Shiraz | 30 | 0.277 ± 0.054

| 23 October 2023 | Cabernet | 30 | 0.603 ± 0.097

| 28 October 2023 | Cabernet | 23 | 0.679 ± 0.042

| 5 November 2023 | Cabernet | 29 | 0.721 ± 0.042

| 5 November 2023 | Shiraz | 30 | 0.345 ± 0.077

| 7 November 2023 | Cabernet | 29 | 0.713 ± 0.049

| 10 November 2023 | Cabernet | 21 | 0.676 ± 0.043

| 15 November 2023 | Cabernet | 30 | 0.648 ± 0.062

| 17 November 2023 | Shiraz | 30 | 0.456 ± 0.063

| 30 November 2023 | Shiraz | 30 | 0.507 ± 0.066

| 22 December 2023 | Shiraz | 30 | 0.567 ± 0.084

| 9 January 2024 | Shiraz | 30 | 0.589 ± 0.067

| 11 January 2024 | Shiraz | 30 | 0.598 ± 0.070

| 25 February 2024 | Shiraz | 29 | 0.608 ± 0.087

| 21 March 2024 | Shiraz | 30 | 0.443 ± 0.086

Table 4.
Performance (mean ± SD) of the modelling approaches: generalised additive model (GAM), random forest (RF), and support vector machine (SVM) fitted with mixed vs. unmixed indices for the Shiraz, Cabernet Sauvignon, and Chardonnay cultivars. The results are presented as the mean ± SD (across 100 runs with random splits). The reported metrics are the coefficient of determination (R2), root-mean-square error (RMSE), and mean absolute error (MAE).

| Vine Variety | Model | | R2 | RMSE | MAE

| Shiraz | GAM | Unmixed | 0.697 ± 0.025 | 0.083 ± 0.005 | 0.068 ± 0.0.005

| | Mixed | 0.670 ± 0.026 | 0.090 ± 0.008 | 0.072 ± 0.006

| RF | Unmixed | 0.625 ± 0.059 | 0.078 ± 0.006 | 0.063 ± 0.004

| | Mixed | 0.510 ± 0.077 | 0.090 ± 007 | 0.071 ± 0.006

| SVM | Unmixed | 0.615 ± 0.064 | 0.084 ± 0.007 | 0.068 ± 0.005

| | Mixed | 0.512 ± 0.071 | 0.094 ± 0.008 | 0.074 ± 0.006

| Cabernet Sauvignon | GAM | Unmixed | 0.697 ± 0.009 | 0.084 ± 0.009 | 0.063 ± 0.006

| | Mixed | 0.763 ± 0.030 | 0.081 ± 0.112 | 0.061 ± 0.007

| RF | Unmixed | 0.686 ± 0.067 | 0.072 ± 0.007 | 0.055 ± 0.005

| | Mixed | 0.649 ± 0.069 | 0.076 ± 0.009 | 0.056 ± 0.006

| SVM | Unmixed | 0.713 ± 0.072 | 0.071 ± 0.009 | 0.052 ± 0.005

| | Mixed | 0.660 ± 0.081 | 0.078 ± 0.009 | 0.057 ± 0.006

| Chardonnay | GAM | Unmixed | 0.901 ± 0.015 | 0.090 ± 0.024 | 0.067 ± 0.017

| | Mixed | 0.877 ± 0.019 | 0.097 ± 0.014 | 0.074 ± 0.0.09

| RF | Unmixed | 0.814 ± 0.044 | 0.075 ± 0.008 | 0.059 ± 0.007

| | Mixed | 0.787 ± 0.056 | 0.081 ± 0.011 | 0.064 ± 0.008

| SVM | Unmixed | 0.818 ± 0.046 | 0.082 ± 0.012 | 0.064 ± 0.008

| | Mixed | 0.824 ± 0.033 | 0.081 ± 0.008 | 0.063 ± 0.007

Table 5.
Mean Paso Panel (PP) and LI-710 flux tower (ET) measurements and modelled crop coefficients (Kcs) for validation data (n = number of samples) in three cultivars (Shiraz, Cabernet Sauvignon, and Chardonnay). Model approach refers to generalised additive model (GAM), random forest (RF) model, and support vector machine (SVM) model, employing mixed (mx) and unmixed (unmx) data.

| Year-Month | Model | Shiraz | Cabernet Sauvignon | Chardonnay

| | |
n
| Kc |
n
| Kc |
n
| Kc

| October 2023 | GAM mx | 12 | 0.318 ± 0.036 | 5 | 0.348 ± 0.129 | 8 | 0.347 ± 0.062

| GAM unmx | 12 | 0.324 ± 0.030 | 5 | 0.313 ± 0.051 | 8 | 0.358 ± 0.080

| RF mx | 12 | 0.321 ± 0.042 | 5 | 0.375 ± 0.015 | 8 | 0.284 ± 0.096

| RF unmx | 12 | 0.294 ± 0.022 | 5 | 0.378 ± 0.021 | 8 | 0.284 ± 0.056

| SVM mx | 12 | 0.332 ± 0.063 | 5 | 0.344 ± 0.108 | 8 | 0.302 ± 0.027

| SVM unmx | 12 | 0.323 ± 0.052 | 5 | 0.380 ± 0.085 | 8 | 0.328 ± 0.054

| PP | 12 | 0.257 ± 0.038 | 5 | 0.319 ± 0.0320 | 8 | 0.273 ± 0.062

| | ET | | | | 0.36 | |

| November 2023 | GAM mx | 22 | 0.443 ± 0.080 | 8 | 0.603 ± 0.060 | 7 | 0.413 ± 0.089

| GAM unmx | 22 | 0.486 ± 0.047 | 8 | 0.612 ± 0.018 | 7 | 0.498 ± 0.166

| RF mx | 22 | 0.458 ± 0.066 | 8 | 0.572 ± 0.097 | 7 | 0.410 ± 0.033

| RF unmx | 22 | 0.457 ± 0.070 | 8 | 0.602 ± 0.035 | 7 | 0.401 ± 0.058

| SVM mx | 22 | 0.441 ± 0.070 | 8 | 0.602 ± 0.039 | 7 | 0.430 ± 0.060

| SVM unmx | 22 | 0.487 ± 0.056 | 8 | 0.510 ± 0.123 | 7 | 0.423 ± 0.090

| PP | 22 | 0.438 ± 0.088 | 8 | 0.614 ± 0.0715 | 7 | 0.397 ± 0.097

| | ET | | | | 0.64 | |

| December 2023 | GAM mx | 8 | 0.593 ± 0.044 | 11 | 0.694 ± 0.032 | |

| GAM unmx | 8 | 0.547 ± 0.020 | 11 | 0.681 ± 0.028 | |

| RF mx | 8 | 0.576 ± 0.024 | 11 | 0.643 ± 0.090 | |

| RF unmx | 8 | 0.591 ± 0.011 | 11 | 0.663 ± 0.012 | |

| SVM mx | 8 | 0.540 ± 0.067 | 11 | 0.681 ± 0.031 | |

| SVM unmx | 8 | 0.571 ± 0.022 | 11 | 0.685 ± 0.043 | |

| PP | 8 | 0.578 ± 0.052 | 11 | 0.687 ± 0.040 | |

| ET | | | | 0.73 | |

| January 2024 | GAM mx | 22 | 0.590 ± 0.026 | 18 | 0.709 ± 0.025 | 19 | 0.601 ± 0.141

| GAM unmx | 22 | 0.592 ± 0.012 | 18 | 0.713 ± 0.020 | 19 | 0.652 ± 0.021

| RF mx | 22 | 0.586 ± 0.016 | 18 | 0.716 ± 0.026 | 19 | 0.648 ± 0.072

| RF unmx | 22 | 0.579 ± 0.020 | 18 | 0.708 ± 0.028 | 19 | 0.6709 ± 0.043

| SVM mx | 22 | 0.579 ± 0.031 | 18 | 0.716 ± 0.030 | 19 | 0.6613 ± 0.101

| SVM unmx | 22 | 0.598 ± 0.007 | 18 | 0.715 ± 0.035 | 19 | 0.6609 ± 0.085

| PP | 22 | 0.598 ± 0.065 | 18 | 0.711 ± 0.033 | 19 | 0.6605 ± 0.071

| ET | | | | 0.74 | |

| February 2024 | GAM mx | 9 | 0.591 ± 0.028 | 8 | 0.657 ± 0.047 | 8 | 0.677 ± 0.0347

| GAM unmx | 9 | 0.605 ± 0.012 | 8 | 0.624 ± 0.023 | 8 | 0.671 ± 0.0122

| RF mx | 9 | 0.577 ± 0.030 | 8 | 0.658 ± 0.068 | 8 | 0.638 ± 0.0357

| RF unmx | 9 | 0.609 ± 0.033 | 8 | 0.678 ± 0.013 | 8 | 0.663 ± 0.0222

| SVM mx | 9 | 0.521 ± 0.067 | 8 | 0.684 ± 0.021 | 8 | 0.670 ± 0.0188

| SVM unmx | 9 | 0.593 ± 0.051 | 8 | 0.673 ± 0.021 | 8 | 0.651 ± 0.0199

| PP | 9 | 0.567 ± 0.107 | 8 | 0.677 ± 0.041 | 8 | 0.677 ± 0.0270

| March 2024 | GAM mx | 8 | 0.438 ± 0.046 | 8 | 0.673 ± 0.058 | |

| GAM unmx | 8 | 0.483 ± 0.010 | 8 | 0.649 ± 0.005 | |

| RF mx | 8 | 0.438 ± 0.027 | 8 | 0.652 ± 0.027 | |

| RF unmx | 8 | 0.438 ± 0.025 | 8 | 0.640 ± 0.016 | |

| SVM mx | 8 | 0.427 ± 0.028 | 8 | 0.671 ± 0.034 | |

| SVM unmx | 8 | 0.451 ± 0.012 | 8 | 0.674 ± 0.018 | |

| PP | 8 | 0.451 ± 0.066 | 8 | 0.674 ± 0.026 | |

Table 6.
Vegetation indices selected after the model selection process for the generalised additive model (GAM), random forest (RF), and support vector machine (SVM) classifier in relation to the use of the unmixed and mixed indices and the cultivars Shiraz, Cabernet Sauvignon, and Chardonnay.

| Variety | Model | Unmixed | Mixed

| Shiraz | RF | CIred, GI, GNDVI, NDRE, NDVI, NDWI, RENDVI2, REP | CIred, GI, GNDVI, IRECI, NDWI, RECAI, RENDVI2, SAVIRED

| GAM | GI, GNDVI, MSI, NDRE, NDWI, RECAI, RENDVI2, SAVIRED | EVI, GI, IRECI, NDII, NDWI, RENDVI2, REP, SAVIRED

| SVM | REP, NDVI, RENDVI2, NDRE, CIred, NDWI, GNDVI, GI | IRECI, GI, RENDVI2, SAVIRED, CIred, GNDVI, NDRE, NDWI

| Cabernet Sauvignon | RF | CIred, GI, GNDVI, MSAVI, NDWI, RECAI, REP, SAVI | GI, GNDVI, MSI, NDII, NDRE, NDWI, RECAI, RENDVI2

| GAM | CIred, GI, GNDVI, MSI, NDVI, NDWI, RECAI, REP | CIred, GI, MSI, NDII, RENDVI2, REP

| SVM | GNDVI, NDWI, GI, RECAI, SAVI, REP, CIred, MSAVI | IRECI, GI, RENDVI2, SAVIRED, CIred, GNDVI, NDRE, NDWI

| Chardonnay | RF | CIred, GI, GNDVI, NDRE, NDVI, NDWI, RENDVI2, REP | EVI, GI, MSAVI, MSI, NDII, RENDVI2, REP, SAVI

| GAM | CIred, EVI, GNDVI, MSAVI, MSI, NDRE, SAVI | GI, GNDVI, IRECI, MSI, NDII, RECAI, SAVIRED

| SVM | NDII, RENDVI2, CIred, NDRE, NDWI, REP, MSAVI, MSI | GI, MSI, NDII, EVI, REP, RENDVI2, MSAVI, SAVI

| |
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.

© 2025 by the authors. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

Share and Cite

MDPI and ACS Style

Guevara-Torres, D.R.; Luo, H.; Do, C.M.; Ostendorf, B.; Pagay, V.
Improving the Accuracy of Seasonal Crop Coefficients in Grapevine from Sentinel-2 Data. Remote Sens. 2025, 17, 3365.
https://doi.org/10.3390/rs17193365

AMA Style

Guevara-Torres DR, Luo H, Do CM, Ostendorf B, Pagay V.
Improving the Accuracy of Seasonal Crop Coefficients in Grapevine from Sentinel-2 Data. Remote Sensing. 2025; 17(19):3365.
https://doi.org/10.3390/rs17193365

Chicago/Turabian Style

Guevara-Torres, Diego R., Hankun Luo, Chi Mai Do, Bertram Ostendorf, and Vinay Pagay.
2025. "Improving the Accuracy of Seasonal Crop Coefficients in Grapevine from Sentinel-2 Data" Remote Sensing 17, no. 19: 3365.
https://doi.org/10.3390/rs17193365

APA Style

Guevara-Torres, D. R., Luo, H., Do, C. M., Ostendorf, B., & Pagay, V.

(2025). Improving the Accuracy of Seasonal Crop Coefficients in Grapevine from Sentinel-2 Data. Remote Sensing, 17(19), 3365.
https://doi.org/10.3390/rs17193365

Note that from the first issue of 2016, this journal uses article numbers instead of page numbers. See further details here.

Article Metrics

Yes

Citations

Scopus

 

2

Crossref

 

2

Web of Science

 

2

Google Scholar

 

[click to view]

No

Article Access Statistics

For more information on the journal statistics, click here.

Multiple requests from the same IP address are counted as one view.

Supplementary Material

Supplementary File 1:

ZIP-Document

(ZIP, 217 KB)

clear

Zoom
|
Orient
|
As Lines
|
As Sticks
|
As Cartoon
|
As Surface
|
Previous Scene
|
Next Scene

Cite

Export citation file:
BibTeX |
EndNote |
RIS

MDPI and ACS Style

Guevara-Torres, D.R.; Luo, H.; Do, C.M.; Ostendorf, B.; Pagay, V.
Improving the Accuracy of Seasonal Crop Coefficients in Grapevine from Sentinel-2 Data. Remote Sens. 2025, 17, 3365.
https://doi.org/10.3390/rs17193365

AMA Style

Guevara-Torres DR, Luo H, Do CM, Ostendorf B, Pagay V.
Improving the Accuracy of Seasonal Crop Coefficients in Grapevine from Sentinel-2 Data. Remote Sensing. 2025; 17(19):3365.
https://doi.org/10.3390/rs17193365

Chicago/Turabian Style

Guevara-Torres, Diego R., Hankun Luo, Chi Mai Do, Bertram Ostendorf, and Vinay Pagay.
2025. "Improving the Accuracy of Seasonal Crop Coefficients in Grapevine from Sentinel-2 Data" Remote Sensing 17, no. 19: 3365.
https://doi.org/10.3390/rs17193365

APA Style

Guevara-Torres, D. R., Luo, H., Do, C. M., Ostendorf, B., & Pagay, V.

(2025). Improving the Accuracy of Seasonal Crop Coefficients in Grapevine from Sentinel-2 Data. Remote Sensing, 17(19), 3365.
https://doi.org/10.3390/rs17193365

Note that from the first issue of 2016, this journal uses article numbers instead of page numbers. See further details here.

clear

Remote Sens.,
EISSN 2072-4292,
Published by MDPI

RSS

Content Alert

Further Information

Article Processing Charge

Pay an Invoice

Open Access Policy

Contact MDPI

Jobs at MDPI

Guidelines

For Authors

For Reviewers

For Editors

For Librarians

For Publishers

For Societies

For Conference Organizers

MDPI Initiatives

Sciforum

MDPI Books

Preprints.org

Scilit

SciProfiles

Encyclopedia

JAMS

Proceedings Series

Follow MDPI

LinkedIn

Facebook

X

© 1996-2026 MDPI (Basel, Switzerland) unless otherwise stated

Disclaimer

Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely
those of the individual author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or
the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to people or property resulting from any ideas,
methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.

Legal Notice

Terms and Conditions

Privacy Policy

Privacy Settings

Accessibility

We use cookies on our website to ensure you get the best experience.

Read more about our cookies here.

Accept

Share Link

Copy

clear

Share

clear

Back to TopTop