                                               Analysis of Learned Features and Framework for Potato

                                                                                   Disease Detection
arXiv:2310.05943v1 [cs.CV] 29 Aug 2023




                                                          Shikha Gupta1*† , Soma Chakraborty2† , and Renu Rameshan1

                                                1
                                                    Vehant Technologies Private Limited, Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201301 India.
                                                            2
                                                                Indian Institute of Technology, Mandi, HP-175005, India.
                                                                                    *
                                                                                        shikhag@vehant.com
                                                                   †
                                                                       These authors contributed equally to this work.
                                         1
                                             Both the authors were affiliated to IIT Mandi during the duration and completion
                                                                                           of this work.



                                                                                             Abstract

                                                     For applications like plant disease detection, usually, a model is trained on publicly available

                                                data and tested on field data. This means that the test data distribution is not the same as

                                                the training data distribution, which affects the classifier performance adversely. We handle

                                                this dataset shift by ensuring that the features are learned from disease spots in the leaf or

                                                healthy regions, as applicable. This is achieved using a faster Region-based convolutional neural

                                                network (RCNN) as one of the solutions and an attention-based network as the other. The

                                                average classification accuracies of these classifiers are approximately 95%, while evaluated on

                                                the test set corresponding to their training dataset. These classifiers also performed equivalently

                                                with an average score 84% on a dataset not seen during the training phase.

                                         Keywords: Potato disease detection, Object detection-based approach, Attention-based network,

                                         Machine learning, Deep learning




                                                                                                  1
1     Introduction

Automatic disease detection software implemented in unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) or hand-held

mobile devices can be a crucial tool for the initial diagnosis of plant diseases in fields, especially in

vast plantations where manual monitoring is not feasible or in remote locations with limited physical

access. Plant diseases often manifest as visible spots on the leaves, which can be imaged easily using

mobile cameras. Training machine learning models using these images offer a cost-effective approach

to developing automated plant disease detection systems.

    For these models, robustness and applicability to real-world plant images with guarantees happen

only when the features are discriminative and learned from the region of an image containing disease

spots. However, in our previous work [1], it was observed that the environment of sample collection

and image quality issues like uneven illumination, defocus, low inter-class variation, and low intra-

class similarity of images, etc., significantly impact the extraction of desired features from the images.

    In [1], several convolutional neural network (CNN) based classification models were built using

images obtained from unconstrained environments of potato plantation sites (in-field dataset), a

laboratory setup (lab-prepared dataset), and segmented images from in-field datasets. It was ob-

served that the average testing performance of these classifiers was approximately 90%, but the

average cross-testing accuracy of all these models was below 50%. Cross-testing refers to evaluating

classifiers using test samples from datasets other than their respective training datasets. Analyzing

this inconsistent classification performance, it was inferred that the discriminative features learned

by the models from their respective datasets were not precisely relevant to identifying disease spots

and healthy parts of the leaves. These models were learning features from background shapes etc.,

which are not relevant.

    In this work, we qualitatively analyze the learned features using an advanced CNN visualization

technique. Based on this analysis, we propose and provide experimental proof of best-suited clas-

sification models for plant disease detection using leaf images. The following is a summary of our

contributions:

    1. Quantitative evaluations of class-discriminative salient regions to demonstrate that traditional

       CNNs tend to learn the broader contextual information rather than focusing specifically on

       disease spots and healthy regions of a leaf image.

    2. A region-based image classifier is proposed by adapting a convolutional neural network-based


                                                    2
      object detection framework using in-field dataset. The testing accuracy of this classifier is

      96.95% with 91.85% region overlap index, and cross-testing accuracy (using the lab-prepared

      dataset) is 84.76%.

    3. An attention-based classification framework is proposed, giving a high response value for the

      image’s disease spot(s) (attention location). The testing accuracy of this classifier is 94.17%,

      and cross-testing accuracy (using the lab-prepared dataset) is 81.65%.

The paper is organized as follows: Section 2 contains the related works, Section 3 describes the pro-

posed approach and results, Section 4 reports the observations and analysis, and Section 5 contains

the conclusions and possible future directions.



2     Related Work
We are reviewing only those works from the literature that deal with image-based automatic plant

disease detection systems. Several methods are reported using various state-of-the-art machine

learning models trained on images of different kinds of crop and vegetable plant leaf images [2],

[3], and [4]. All these works mainly compared the performance of conventional machine learning

models like SVM or some well-known CNN models like AlexNet [5], VGG16 [6], InceptionV3 [7],

FRCNN [8], SSD [9], Mask RCNN [10] etc. Most of these methods used a lab-prepared dataset

called Plant Village [11] and reported good classification performance (average accuracy is 96%).

Few works also reported accuracies ranging from 89% to 98% using a few hundred to a few thousands

of in-field samples. Joe. et al. [12] trained Mask RCNN-based instance segmentation model [10]

using RGB and different color space images to detect the diseased patch. The reported mean average

precision (mAP) and mean average recall (mAR) on RGB images are 80.9% and 55.5%, respectively.

Additionally, they reported higher values of 98.1% for mAP and 81.9% for mAR, but those results

are not taken into consideration due to the involvement of manual intervention in their calculation.

    However, none of these studies provided confirmation regarding the classifier’s adaptability and

effectiveness when dealing with images of closely related plant species taken under various real-world

conditions. Also, the analysis and reasoning of varying performances by the proposed models were

not reported. Methods using in-field data also lack analysis and justification for achieving high

accuracy with fewer real-world images. Few methods used well-known CNN visualization methods

and reported the highlighted disease spots in lab-prepared images [2]. But a quantitative measure


                                                  3
of the impact of highlighted image regions on the model’s performance has not been reported. Such

works are not reviewed in this paper.

     As stated earlier, the key factor in creating an efficient plant leaf image-based disease detection

system is extracting discriminative and relevant features of disease spots and the leaves in the images.

So, for such systems, quantitative and qualitative analysis of learned features must be emphasized.

Moreover, the environment of collected samples and faults in captured images impact the classifier’s

performance significantly. For proper validation of the plant disease classifiers, experiments should

be conducted using both lab-prepared and in-field images on models of the same architecture.

    Table 1: Description of the datasets used to train the classifiers in [1] and in the present work.

          Dataset           Description
     org-CPRI (in-field )   A dataset of images, captured in potato plantation fields in Northern India
                            and is provided by the Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla, India
                            (Figure 1(a)). A detailed description of this dataset is in [1].
          seg-CPRI          Segmented CPRI dataset generated by the trained UNet model [13] followed
                            by post-processing steps using morphological operations (the second column
                            in Figure 1(b)).
      PV (lab-prepared )    A public dataset of images captured in the constrained environment of a
                            laboratory (Figure 1(c)). This dataset was created for the work Plant Village
                            [11].




3      Proposed Approach

We start this work by analyzing the learned features of CNN-based models trained in [1] to classify

potato leaf images into three classes - early blight (EB), late blight (LB) and healthy leaves (HL)

(Figure 1). Table 1 contains a concise description of the datasets used. A state-of-the-art CNN

visualization method is applied to the trained models for quantitative and qualitative analysis of the

learned features, as described in sections 3.1 and 3.2.

     Quantitative measures of salient regions revealed that the features are learnt from the overall

organization of image content and are not directly related to disease spots and healthy parts of

leaves, i.e., there models failed to locate the region of interest in images to learn class discriminative

features. An appropriate model for an effective classifier must learn to localize the region of interest

in an image and should learn features specific to these regions.

     We implemented such guided learning of features related to disease spots and healthy leaves in

two ways: 1. using an object detection-based framework - faster region-based convolutional neural



                                                     4
                                EB
                                LB
                                HL




                                 (a) org-CPRI   (b) seg-CPRI       (c) PV

Figure 1: Sample images from three used datasets: (a) original CPRI images (org-CPRI), (b)
segmented CPI images (seg-CPRI), (c) Plant Village (PV) images.


network (Faster-RCNN) [8], and 2. using an attention-based classification framework - attention

branch network (ABN) [14]. Both the methods are as described in section 3.3.


3.1       Salient Regions Visualization

The class decisive regions were visualized (Figure 2) using the work in [15]. These visualizations

(saliency maps) provide the coarse localization of the dominant parts of an image that are responsible

for a class decision by a trained model. The red to orange regions in the figure are the most important

regions for a class decision.


3.2       Quantitative Measures of Salient Regions Generated by Trained Mod-
          els

The correctness of saliency maps generated by the trained models is quantitatively measured with

respect to the ground truth of CPRI and PV samples by calculating overlap precision and overlap

recall:


                                                             TP
                                     overlapP recision =                                           (1)
                                                           TP + FP
                                                           TP
                                       overlapRecall =                                             (2)
                                                         TP + FN


                                                   5
                        (a) Original CPRI                  (b) Segmented CPRI




                                                (c) PV

Figure 2: Maximally activated image regions (saliency maps) generated by the classifiers trained on
the three datasets using the class activation mapping method.

       Table 2: Evaluation metrics of saliency maps generated by the trained models in [1]

      Dataset       Overlap Precision (%)         Avg.        Overlap Recall (%)          Avg.
                                                  Preci-                                 Recall
                                                   sion
                  Early      Late     Healthy              Early      Late     Healthy
                  Blight    Blight    Leaves               Blight    Blight    Leaves
         PV       66.17     49.92      86.80      67.63    30.50     53.03      44.47     42.67
      org-CPRI    12.95     10.65      68.57      30.72    24.85     25.33      24.87     25.12
      seg-CPRI    33.05     29.87      90.71      74.64    17.47     15.46      24.24     57.17
        Avg.                                      49.92                                   28.91


where, T P stands for true positive pixels that are 1 in both the ground-truth and saliency map. F P

refers to false positive pixels that are 0 in the ground-truth but 1 in saliency map, and F N refers to

false negative pixels that are 1 in the ground-truth but 0 in saliency map. Hence, overlapPrecision

measures the amount of true information in the saliency maps, and overlapRecall measures the

amount of ground-truth information that is retrieved by the saliency maps. Table 2 presents the

dataset-wise average metrics per class.

   The foregrounds of the disease class images are disease spots surrounded by a narrow strip of

the healthy part of the leaf, and foregrounds of healthy leaves class contain one prominent leaf.

The ground-truth images are binarized by thresholding the green index of the hue channel of HSV

colorspace (Figure 3b and Figure 4b). The threshold for healthy leaf is between 0.15 to 0.60, and it

is less than 0.15 for disease spots. The saliency maps are binarised by setting pixels in red to orange

colored regions to 1 (Figure 3d and Figure 4d).




                                                   6
                        PV
                       orgCPRI
                       segCPRI




                                 (a) Original     (b) GT        (c) SM       (d) BSM

Figure 3: Examples of the color-coded ground-truth images (GT), saliency maps (SM), and binarised
saliency maps (BSM) of early blight (EB) class.


3.3     ROI Based Image Classification:

This classifier comprises two parts - (I) ROI detector and (II) detected ROI-based image classifier.

ROI is a bounding box around a diseased spot or a whole, healthy leaf in an image.


  I ROI Detector:                A trainable part to locate disease spots or healthy leaf in an image and to

      predict their class labels simultaneously, implemented using Faster-RCNN. This part is trained

      on 40% of the images from the CPRI dataset by minimizing binary cross-entropy and smooth

      ℓ1 loss using Adam optimizer with learning rate 10−5 . It is tested on 30% of CPRI samples for

      which ground-truths (bounding boxes around ROIs) are generated and not used for training.

 II Image Classifier:

      As each image in the datasets used either contains healthy leaf(ves) or one type of disease

      spot(s), class decision for a whole image is taken based on its detected ROIs. This part is tested

      on 60% of the images from CPRI dataset that are not used for training and all of the PV images.


To evaluate both the ROI detector and image classifier, only predicted ROIs with confidence score

more than 80% are considered.




                                                           7
                      PV
                      org-CPRI
                      seg-CPRI




                                 (a) Original   (b) GT       (c) SM   (d) BSM

Figure 4: Example of the color-coded ground-truth images (GT), saliency maps (SM), and binarized
saliency maps (BSM) of healthy leaves (HL) class.


3.4    Attention-based Image Classification

The attention branch network (ABN) [14] consists of three units - feature extractor module, attention

branch, and perception branch. The feature extractor contains a stack of convolution layers and

extracts a set of feature maps from an input image. We consider ResNet18 as the baseline model for

ABN. The attention branch takes these feature maps as input and computes the attention maps using

class activation mapping (CAM) [16] followed by a sigmoid function during training. Attention maps

show the location of the highest activated region corresponding to each class. The final probability

of each class is computed by the perception branch, which receives the feature map from the feature

extractor and the attention map from the attention branch.

   The ABN is trained using segmented CPRI images with class labels. Segmented images are

generated by training the UNet using manually generated binary masks of a small set of CPRI

images. Using the trained UNet, segmentation masks for each of the training and test images from

the CPRI dataset are generated, which are further refined using morphological operations. Along

with classification scores, ABN also provides the visual cue of the presence of disease spots in images

via an attention map, which validates its classification decisions.




                                                         8
                      Table 3: Evaluation metrics of ROI-based image classifier.

                                Overlap Precision (%)                            Overlap Recall (%)
    ROI Detector                        91.85                                           83.06
                                             Accuracy (Precision, Recall, F-measure) (%)
                                       Testing                                      Cross-testing
 Image Classifier           96.95 (0.8351, 0.9369, 0.8745)                  84.76 (0.7486, 0.8144, 0.7655)
                                             Confusion Matrices
       Actual                                             Predicted
                                      Testing                                      Cross-Testing
                    Early Blight   Late Blight Healthy Leaves   Early Blight       Late Blight Healthy Leaves
  Early Blight         1197            27             9             908                38            54
  Late Blight            16           753             7              98               805            97
 Healthy Leaves           3             0            20              41                 0           111

                    Table 4: Evaluation metrics of attention-based image classifier.

                                             Accuracy (Precision, Recall, F-measure) (%)
                                       Testing                                      Cross-testing
 Image Classifier           94.17 (0.8382, 0.9418, 0.8870)                  85.66 (0.7767, 0.8272, 0.8012)
                                                 Confusion Matrices
       Actual                                                Predicted
                                      Testing                                       Cross-Testing
                    Early Blight   Late Blight    Healthy Leaves    Early Blight    Late Blight Healthy Leaves
  Early Blight         1023            22               12              865              3            21
  Late Blight            66           621                2              102            551            92
 Healthy Leaves           0             1               22               35              1           102


4     Experimental Results and Analysis

It can be observed in Figure 2 that in saliency maps of any of the datasets, disease spots are

not particularly highlighted as the salient regions. Though these spots are quite prominent, the

trained models do not concentrate on these for the class decisions. This is proved to be a general

trend through the quantitative measures of the correctness of class-specific saliency regions (Table

2). The models, trained on any dataset, exhibit low overlap precision and recall values of salient

maps’ coverage for the disease classes. As the healthy parts of leaves cover relatively more area in

the images, the precision of salient maps for healthy leaves class is higher than the disease classes.

However, low overlap recall of saliency maps for this class samples in all the datasets indicates

that retrieved information is insufficient. Similarly, the foregrounds of disease classes in PV images

occupy more area than CPRI images, particularly for original CPRI images, overlapping, leading to

the high precision of saliency maps for the PV disease classes.

    In summary, the average overlap precision of the salient maps generated by the models trained

on the used datasets is approximately 50%, which indicates the significant contribution of image


                                                     9
                               (a) EB          (b) LB           (c) HL

Figure 5: Sample ROI detection results for original CPRI images. *(EB: Early Blight; LB: Late
Blight; HL: Healthy Leaves.)


background in the learned features. At the same time, less than 30% overlap recall indicates the

insignificance of disease spots in the learned features. Probably, in each of the datasets, a class is

attributed to a particular background-foreground combination that exists in the majority of samples

from that class. As such combinations are bound to vary with datasets, learned features are not

adaptable to the images from similar but different datasets.

   These observations indicate that the CNN models trained on the whole leaf images are unable to

locate the region of interest (disease spot(s) or healthy leaf) in the images. The trained models fail

to segregate the foregrounds of the images from the backgrounds. The following inherent challenges

of leaf images account for this phenomenon: 1. Both the foreground and background in an in-field

leaf image are of similar appearance - the foreground is a leaf with or without disease spot/s, and

the background is other leaves and weeds with exposed ground patches. 2. Competitive class objects

are not quite different in visual appearance from each other. 3. Disease spots cover smaller areas

of the leaves and are mainly different in colour from the leaves. This colour change seems to be

equivalent to the illumination variation in images leading to misinterpretation of image parts by the


                                                 10
                                (a) EB              (b) LB               (c) HL

 Figure 6: Sample ROI detection results for PV images. *(EB: Early Blight; LB: Late Blight; HL: Healthy Leaves.)


models [1].

   Therefore, an effective leaf image-based plant disease classifier must do two tasks simultaneously -

differentiate between foreground and background and recognize healthy leaf and two types of disease

spots. Hence, the appropriate model for this task must learn to locate the region of interest (ROIs)

automatically and must learn features specific to those regions only instead of the whole image for

classification.

   The proposed ROI-based and attention-based image classifiers fulfill this need by successfully de-

tecting or highlighting the intended ROIs in an image and thus classifying the whole image correctly

(Table 3 and Table 4). The ROI-based classifier detected ROIs in images with 91.85% precision

and its testing accuracy is 96.93%. These high metrics prove that the proposed classifier learned

the true features to differentiate between background and foreground and between the class-specific

ROIs. The equivalent cross-testing accuracy (84.76%) proves that the classifier is independent of

the environment of captured images and is adaptable.

   The ROI-based classifier also detected most of the desired ROIs as the recall of ground-truth

overlap is 83.06%. Less than 10% of the missed detections are misclassified ROIs. The missed

detections are either very small disease spots or are over or underestimation of ground-truth boxes



                                                       11
                      (a) Early Blight                           (b) Late Blight




                                          (c) Healthy Leaves

        Figure 7: Visualisation of region of interest in CPRI images through ABN network.


due to the arbitrary shapes of disease spots. Figure 5 and Figure 6 show some of the results of the

ROI detector.

    ABN also considers the disease regions for classification decisions for images of both CPRI and PV

datasets, as seen in Figure 7 and Figure 8. It is observed that for disease class images, the attention

map highlights the disease areas. In contrast, there is no attention region in the images of healthy

leaves class, as these images do not contain any disease spot. For the ability to detect attention

regions, ABN classified CPRI images with 94.95% accuracy. Its 85.66% cross-testing accuracy also

proves that ABN learned features from diseased areas and healthy leaf.



5     Conclusion

Our experimental observations show that for plant leaf disease detection, the conventional CNNs

are unable to detect the region of interest in the images and learn discriminative features from the

overall image content of their respective training datasets. Hence, these features are not precisely

related to the disease spot(s) and healthy leaf and are not applicable to other similar potato leaf



                                                  12
                      (a) Early Blight                            (b) Late Blight




                                          (c) Healthy Leaves

       Figure 8: Visualisation of the region of interest in PV images through ABN network.


image datasets.

   On the other hand, the high classification accuracies of the proposed classifiers prove that “region-

specific feature learning” suppressed the backgrounds and the visual similarities between the ob-

jects of different classes. The equivalent testing and cross-testing results prove that the region and

attention-based classifiers are independent of the environment of captured images and are adaptable

to different but similar datasets.

   However, the effectiveness of such systems can be ensured by practicing some precautionary mea-

sures while capturing the images, which cannot be addressed completely by algorithms - 1) regions of

interest, particularly the disease spots, must be focused, 2) regions of interest must be evenly illumi-

nated, 3) training data must represent the possible intra-class variations, highlighting the inter-class

variations.




                                                  13
Acknowledgments

This research work is a part of the project FarmerZone, sponsored by the Department of Biotech-

nology, Govt. of India. We thank Central Potato Research Institute (CPRI), Shimla, India, for

providing the dataset from the field.



References

 1.   Ghosh S, Rameshan R, and AD D. An empirical study on machine learning models for potato

      leaf disease classification using RGB images. In: The International Conference on Pattern

      Recognition Applications and Methods (ICPRAM21). 2021.

 2.   Ngugi LC, Abelwahab M, and Abo-Zahhad M. Recent advances in image processing tech-

      niques for automated leaf pest and disease recognition – A review. Information Processing in

      Agriculture 2020.

 3.   Saleem MH, Potgieter J, and Arif KM. Plant Disease Detection and Classification by Deep

      Learning. Plants 2019;8.

 4.   Kaur S, Pandey S, and Goel S. Plants Disease Identification and Classification Through Leaf

      Images: A Survey. Archives of Computational Methods in Engineering 2018;26:507–30.

 5.   Krizhevsky A, Sutskever I, and Hinton GE. ImageNet Classification with Deep Convolutional

      Neural Networks. In: Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 25. 2012:1097–105.

 6.   Simonyan veK and Zisserman A. Very Deep Convolutional Networks for Large-Scale Image

      Recognition. In: International Conference on Learning Representations. 2015.

 7.   Szegedy C, Wei Liu, Yangqing Jia, et al. Going deeper with convolutions. In: 2015 IEEE

      Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). 2015:1–9.

 8.   Ren S, He K, Girshick R, and Sun J. Faster R-CNN: Towards Real-Time Object Detection

      with Region Proposal Networks. In: Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 28.

      Ed. by Cortes C, Lawrence ND, Lee DD, Sugiyama M, and Garnett R. Curran Associates, Inc.,

      2015:91–9.

 9.   Liu W, Anguelov D, Erhan D, et al. SSD: Single Shot MultiBox Detector. In: vol. 9905. 2016:21–

      37. doi: 10.1007/978-3-319-46448-0_2.


                                                 14
10.   He K, Gkioxari G, Dollár P, and Girshick R. Mask r-cnn. In: Proceedings of the IEEE inter-

      national conference on computer vision. 2017:2961–9.

11.   Mohanty SP, Hughes DP, and Salathé M. Using Deep Learning for Image-Based Plant Disease

      Detection. Frontiers in Plant Science 2016.

12.   Johnson J, Sharma G, Srinivasan S, et al. Enhanced field-based detection of potato blight in

      complex backgrounds using deep learning. Plant Phenomics 2021: 1–13. 2021.

13.   Ronneberger O, Fischer P, and Brox T. U-net: Convolutional networks for biomedical image

      segmentation. In: International Conference on Medical image computing and computer-assisted

      intervention. Springer. 2015:234–41.

14.   Fukui H, Hirakawa T, Yamashita T, and Fujiyoshi H. Attention branch network: Learning

      of attention mechanism for visual explanation. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on

      Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). 2019:10705–14.

15.   Selvaraju RR, Cogswell M, Das A, Vedantam R, Parikh D, and Batra D. Grad-CAM: Visual

      Explanations from Deep Networks via Gradient-Based Localization. In: 2017:618–26.

16.   Zhou B, Khosla A, Lapedriza A, Oliva A, and Torralba A. Learning deep features for discrim-

      inative localization. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern

      recognition. 2016:2921–9.




                                                    15
