     https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
     Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
      c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




     Flood damage functions for rice: Synthesizing evidence and building
     data-driven models
     Alina Bill-Weilandt1, 2, 3, 4, Nivedita Sairam4, Dennis Wagenaar2, Kasra Rafiezadeh Shahi3,4, Heidi
     Kreibich4, Perrine Hamel1,2, David Lallemant1,2
     1
 5     Observatory of Singapore, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
     2
       Asian School of the Environment, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
     3
       Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK), Member of the Leibniz Association, Potsdam, Germany
     4
       Section 4.4 Hydrology, GFZ Helmholtz Centre for Geosciences, 14473 Potsdam, Germany
     Correspondence to: Alina Bill-Weilandt (alina001@e.ntu.edu.sg)

10   Floods are a major cause of agricultural losses, yet flood damage models for crops are scarce, often lack validation, uncertainty
     estimates, and assessments of their performance in new regions. This study introduces CROPDAM-X, a framework for
     developing and evaluating flood damage models for crops, and applies it to rice. We compile and review 20 damage models
     from 12 countries, identifying key gaps and limitations. Using empirical survey data from Thailand and Myanmar, we develop
     a suite of models, including deterministic and probabilistic stage-damage functions, Bayesian regression, and Random Forest,
15   based on key flood characteristics like water depth, duration, and plant growth stage. We assess predictive performance through
     cross-validation and test how well models trained in one region perform when applied to another. Our results show that model
     performance depends on complexity and context: Random Forest achieves the highest accuracy, while simpler models offer
     ease of use in data-scarce settings. The results also demonstrate the potential errors introduced by transferring models spatially,
     highlighting the need for diverse training data or local calibration. We present the most comprehensive review of flood damage
20   models for rice to date and provide practical guidance on model selection and expected errors when transferring models across
     regions.
     Keywords: Crops, Agriculture, Transferability, Machine learning, Bayesian regression, Random Forest, CROPDAM-X



     1 Introduction

     1.1 Flood damage models for the agricultural sector

25   Extreme events have caused estimated losses of USD 3.8 trillion in the agricultural sector over the past three decades (1991-
     2021). This is equivalent to an average annual loss of about USD 123 billion or 5% of the global agricultural GDP (FAO 2023).
     Agricultural losses affect the livelihoods of people globally – in 2019, about half of the population worldwide (3.83 billion
     people) lived in households with agrifood system-based livelihoods (Davis et al., 2023). In 2023, 29% of the global population
     faced moderate or severe food insecurity, meaning they did not have regular access to adequate food, while 9.1% of the global
30   population faced hunger (FAO 2024). Stress to agricultural production is caused by abiotic (non-living environmental) factors


                                                                     1
     https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
     Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
      c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




     – such as flooding, drought, and extreme temperatures – and biotic factors such as pests, diseases, and invasive species. Among
     these, flooding is especially damaging, as it affects not only crops but also agricultural assets.
     Crop models are used to predict or explain yield under varying conditions. There are three state-of-the-art approaches to assess
     the impact of extreme climatic events on yield: field experiments, process-based models (relying on biophysical processes),
35   and statistical and empirical models (like regression models and machine-learning algorithms) (Hu et al., 2024). Crop models
     can integrate biological, physiological, ecological, physical, and economic components (Pasquel et al., 2022). While progress
     has been made in modeling yield reductions from droughts and heat, few process-based crop models account for the effects of
     excessive rainfall (Kim et al., 2024). These models often overestimate yields under wet conditions, because they consider the
     plants’ water requirements but disregard submergence-related damage (Li et al., 2019; Liu et al., 2022). Integrating flood
40   damage models into crop models has the potential to improve yield estimations under wet conditions.
     Quantifying flood damage is imperative for effective flood risk management and transfer solutions in the agricultural sector.
     Flood damage models, often represented by vulnerability curves estimate asset damage due to submergence based on hazard
     intensity variables (e.g. flood duration and water depth). The choice of the flood damage model can have significant effects on
     impact estimates (Apel et al., 2009; De Moel et al., 2012; Jongman et al., 2012). Flood damage in rural areas is often
45   underestimated or overlooked, largely due to their lower exposures and associated losses in comparison to urban settings
     (Förster et al., 2008). However, this neglect can have serious consequences as flooding in agricultural regions poses a
     significant threat to global food security.
     Key drivers of yield loss due to flooding include flood duration, seasonality, and velocity (Brémond et al., 2013). Yield loss is
     influenced by both inundation characteristics (water depth, flood duration, flow velocity, water contamination, and sediment
50   load) and plant characteristics (crop type, growth stage, plant height, minimum damageable flood depth, and tolerable flood
     duration) (Förster et al., 2008; Nguyen et al., 2021; Shrestha et al., 2021). Although yield loss results from complex, nonlinear
     interactions between multiple variables, few machine learning algorithms exist for crop damage modeling (Monteleone et al.,
     2023b). Machine Learning methods and Bayesian inferencing have been found suitable for estimating the size of agricultural
     areas damaged by flooding and flood-induced yield loss based on remote sensing data (Nhangumbe et al., 2023; Tapia-Silva
55   et al., 2011), complemented by meteorological data (Lazin et al., 2021).
     Despite these advancements, the prediction of flood losses from crop models is associated with high uncertainty. For instance,
     state-of-the-art crop models were found to underestimate losses by up to 7-fold (Monteleone et al., 2023a). The high variability
     in damage processes calls for probabilistic models, which are capable of accounting for uncertainty in model parameters,
     structure, and damage process, to inform flood risk management decisions (Sairam et al., 2020). In contrast to deterministic
60   models, which predict a single loss estimate, probabilistic models quantify uncertainty in the damage predictions by providing
     the likelihood of the whole spectrum of loss values.
     Despite the high prevalence of data-driven (including Machine Learning), probabilistic modeling approaches for the built-up
     sector (Dottori et al., 2016; Schröter et al., 2014; Wagenaar et al., 2018), they do not exist for the agriculture sector. This can
     be attributed to scarcity of agricultural damage survey data in many countries. Only 31 countries submitted hazard-

                                                                      2
     https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
     Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
      c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




65   disaggregated agricultural losses to the Sendai Framework Monitor, from 2015 to 2021 (FAO 2023, p.19), which highlights a
     lack of data for developing damage models for crops. In the absence of local yield damage data, risk modelers rely on
     generalized models or localized models trained on data from other regions (transferred models). They are confronted with the
     question of which flood damage model is the most suited for their case. A popular choice of models is from practice-oriented
     literature including the HAZUS Flood Model, Multi-Coloured Model (MCM), and the damage curves from the Joint Research
70   Centre (JRC). The HAZUS Flood Model estimates yield loss from river flooding based on flood duration and time of the year
     (FEMA 2020). The MCM presents yield reductions and the financial gain (or loss) resulting from cultivating one more (or
     less) hectare of land for crops in England and Wales, under different drainage conditions (Penning-Rowsell, 2013; Penning-
     Rowsell et al., 2005). The JRC report provides continental stage-damage functions (SDFs) – also known as depth-damage
     curves – for crops in Asia and Europe as well as five country-specific SDFs for agriculture (including three SDFs for rice),
75   created based on models and maximum damage values from the literature. The JRC report found limited damage models
     available for the agriculture and infrastructure/roads sectors (Huizinga et al., 2017).

     1.2 Spatial transferability of flood damage models

     The choice of transferred damage models introduces biases in risk assessment. For instance, a case study in Thailand reported
     an 8-fold increase in estimated losses when applying the damage models from the Philippines in comparison to the ones from
80   Myanmar (Budhathoki et al., 2024; applying models by Shrestha et al., 2021, 2016). In addition, most crop damage models
     consider the time of the year to incorporate seasonality in damage estimation. However, the usage of "time of the year" as a
     proxy for growth stage hinders the transfer of the model to a region with different climatic conditions and crop planting cycles
     as this approach inherently ties the model’s processes to a specific region, reducing its applicability elsewhere (Brémond et al.,
     2013).
85   Assessing transferability across regions helps risk modelers balance the cost of collecting localized, detailed damage data
     against the benefits of adopting more pragmatic, cost-effective damage modeling approaches. While transferability is a key
     requirement in process-based model development, transferability assessments remain limited (Brémond et al., 2022).
     Agricultural studies have assessed the transferability of linear flood damage models for wheat (Scorzini et al., 2021), piecewise
     linear (ramp) functions for rice (Shrestha et al., 2021), and crop yield prediction models (Priyatikanto et al., 2023; Stiller et al.,
90   2024). However, most damage models for crops rely on national loss databases or expert knowledge without a transferability
     assessment (Brémond et al., 2022).

     1.3 Research contributions and scope

     The objective of this study is twofold: 1. We create an inventory of state-of-the-art flood damage models for the agriculture
     sector from scientific and practice-oriented literature; 2. We conceptualize and implement a four-step methodological
95   framework for advancing flood damage models in the agricultural sector. The framework supports flood damage modeling for
     crops that integrates machine learning approaches in the model development and validates models across regions.
                                                                       3
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




      In line with the key recommendations for the development of damage models for crops of a systematic review (Monteleone et
      al., 2023b), the methodological framework (1) uses field observations (collected through household surveys), disaggregated
      by growth stage, which (2) enables the selection of easily measurable predictors instead of crop model-derived predictors, (3)
100   involves detailed reporting of the damage models and their parameters, and (4) validation of the damage models, including
      cross-region validation.
      The methodological framework is implemented to model flood damages to rice in two countries – Thailand and Myanmar –
      since rice is the primary staple crop for a large share of the global population. Grown and consumed predominantly in Asia,
      which accounted for almost half (45%) of the agricultural losses from natural hazards from 2015 to 2021 (FAO 2023, p.26,
105   estimate based on FAO and EM-DAT data), rice crops are at high risk due to disasters. Moreover, a few flood damage models
      for rice exist, allowing us to compare the performance of models based on different approaches.
      Figure 1 presents the methodological framework, which includes (1) the creation of a flood damage data and model inventory
      for rice, (2) the development of machine learning and statistical flood damage model for rice, and (3) model validation (out of
      sample 10-fold validation and cross-region validation), and (4) model reporting. We call the framework CROP DAMage
110   modeling (CROPDAM-X), where “X” stands for next-generation modeling approaches – such as machine learning and
      probabilistic methods – and cross-regional learning.
      In this study, flooding refers to excessive water accumulation in a field that causes unintended submergence of plants – when
      part or all of the shoot (the aboveground portion) is underwater (Kim et al., 2024). Since paddy fields are routinely submerged
      during parts of the growth cycle, this definition differs from that of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (2022),
115   which describes flooding as water overflowing natural boundaries or accumulating in normally dry areas. The study focuses
      on the vulnerability of rice plants to submergence. We disregard other causes of water-related yield loss like waterlogging
      (when the soil becomes overly saturated with water), lodging (when heavy rain or strong winds displace the shoots), pests and
      diseases (Kim et al., 2024), saltwater intrusion, and water pollution.




                                                                      4
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




120   2 Methodology

      The CROPDAM-X framework (Fig. 1) outlines the steps for developing and validating damage models for the agricultural
      sector.

           Creation of a flood damage                     Model                                  Model                              Model
            data and model inventory                   development                             validation                         reporting


       •    Review the literature          •   Develop models (linear        •   Assess the model                   •   Select the best models
       •    Create a damage data               regression, Bayesian              performance, using                     in terms of performance
            inventory                          regression, random                metrics like MAE, MBE,                 and simplicity
       •    Categorize existing                forest)                           and mean CRPS:                     •   Visualize damage
            damage models                  •   Select the best Bayesian              1. Leave-one-out cross             predictions by the
       •    Check if spatial                   regression model based                   validation (LOO CV)             selected models
            transferability was                on log predictive density                (with 10 folds)             •   Present lookup tables
            assessed                       •   Analyze predictor                                                    •   Compare resulting
       •    Collect additional data            importance for                        2. Cross-region                    damage models with
            (survey in North-East              multivariable models                     validation (CRV)                models from the
            Thailand)                                                                   (spatial transfer)              literature

      Fig. 1: Methodological framework CROPDAM-X for damage model development and validation for the agricultural sector through
125   machine learning & model transferability assessments

      2.1 Data for the model development

      As a preparatory step before model development, we gathered flood damage data for rice from scientific and grey literature.
      In the next step, we extended the review to non-academic publications and compiled a table of existing flood damage models
      for rice (Table S5). To develop new flood damage models for rice, we combined the three datasets presented in Table 1.
130   Table 1: Flood damage datasets for rice used for the model development, including the variables relative yield loss, water depth,
      flood duration, and growth stage

                                                                                                         Number of rice
                                                Data collection      Flood events           Damage
       Country         Basin                                                                             farming households       Reference
                                                period               covered                cases
                                                                                                         surveyed
                                                                     Major flood                         n=491 rice farming
                       Lower Songkhram          March 11 – 28,                                                                    (Bill-Weilandt et
       Thailand                                                      events from            c=137        households out of 584
                       River Basin              2023                                                                              al., 2025)
                                                                     2013-2023                           surveyed households
                                                                     in August 2011,
                       Bago River Basin                              July 2018 (and                      n=174 with income
                                                October 22 -                                                                      (Shrestha et al.,
       Myanmar         (Bago, Thanatpin, and                         dam breach in          c=429        from rice out of 340
                                                November 3, 2019                                                                  2021)
                       Kawa townships)                               August), and                        surveyed households
                                                                     August 2019
                                                                                                         n=78 with income from
                       Bago River Basin         June - July 2016     June-July 2016                                               (Win et al.,
       Myanmar                                                                              c=86         rice out of 254
                       (Bago township)          and May 2017         and May 2017                                                 2018)
                                                                                                         surveyed households


      We used survey-based flood damage data published by Shrestha et al. (2021), including four key variables: relative yield loss,
      water depth, flood duration, and growth stage. This dataset was complemented with additional data from the same basin in




                                                                                 5
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




135   Myanmar (Win et al., 2018). These were the only publicly available datasets that included all four variables and were suitable
      for developing predictive models.
      In addition to the secondary datasets, we conducted a household survey among farmers in Northeast Thailand to collect flood
      damage data concerning rice. The survey data collected in Thailand are comparable to those from Myanmar. We interviewed
      584 households (20% of the 2,904 total) in the Lower Songkhram River Basin in March 2023, exceeding the minimum sample
140   size for a 95% confidence level (see Fig. S1 and Tables S1-S2 for details on the data collection).
      In the Lower Songkhram River Basin in Northeast Thailand, over 80% of households earn income from rice farming. Located
      in the Mekong Delta near the Lao PDR border, the area often experiences flood-related rice yield losses. On May 15, 2020, it
      was designated Thailand’s 15th Ramsar site for its rich biodiversity and vital ecosystem services. The site includes wetlands,
      the nearly 100 km long Lower Songkhram River, floodplains, and marshlands, surrounded by paddy fields (Ramsar, 2019).
145   In the Bago River Basin in Southern Myanmar, 40,00 ha of paddy fields account for about half of the sown area. The 331 km
      long Bago River is used for hydropower generation, irrigation, and fishing (Shrestha et al., 2021; Win et al., 2018). Hosting
      over 20,000 migratory waterbirds, the Moeyungyi Wetland Wildlife Sanctuary, located west of the Bago River Basin, between
      the Waw Township and the Bago Township, was declared a Ramsar site in 2004 (Ramsar Site Information Service, 2004).
      Win et al. (2018) interviewed 254 households, and Shrestha et al. (2021) interviewed 340 households in the downstream area
150   of the Bago River Basin. The downstream part of the basin is flat (with an elevation below 10 m) in contrast to the hilly
      upstream parts (with an elevation of 50-750m) (Shrestha et al., 2021).

      2.2 Model development

      Each of the three selected dataset contains three predictor variables (flood duration, water depth at the flood location, and plant
      growth stage) and a response variable (relative yield loss), describing the share of yield lost from 0 (no yield loss) to 1 (total
155   yield loss, Table 2). The considered phenological traits (duration of each plant growth stage and the plant height at each plant
      growth stage) are similar in the datasets used to develop the models (see Fig. S2).
      Table 2: Overview of predictor and response variables used for flood damage model fitting

       Model components        Variable              Scale: range (of values in the combined data set), unit (if applicable)

                               Flood duration        continuous: 1 – 100 days
       Predictors (n=3)        Water depth           continuous: 2 – 500 cm
                               Growth stage          ordinal: (1) "vegetative stage", (2) "reproductive stage", (3) "maturity stage"
                               Relative yield loss
       Response (n=1)                                continuous: 0 – 1
                               (or loss ratio)


      In this study, we develop data-driven models – namely regression, Bayesian regression, and Random Forest models – to
160   estimate direct physical flood damage to crops, with rice as an example crop. Each model type is presented in Table 3 and
      explained in the Supplementary Information.


                                                                              6
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




      For each model type, we developed one generalized model using the combined dataset and one localized model for each region
      (Myanmar or Thailand). To evaluate model performance against the current standard in the literature, we included the most
      recently published ramp functions based on empirical data from Myanmar (Shrestha et al., 2021), and retrained our models on
165   the same dataset to allow direct comparison.
      Table 3: Overview of flood damage model types evaluated in this study, with relative yield loss ranging from 0 to 100%. For each
      new model type, we developed a generalized model trained on the combined data and two localized models (one per region). For
      comparison with the ramp function, we also trained the localized Myanmar models with a smaller dataset, limited to the Shrestha
      et al. 2021 data.

       Predictors     Modeling approach           Equation                                                                 Origin of model

       water depth    Linear regression           𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒 𝑦𝑖𝑒𝑙𝑑 𝑙𝑜𝑠𝑠 (%) = 𝛼 + 𝛽√𝑤𝑑 + 𝜀 if wd > hmin,                     New
                      [deterministic stage-       where relative yield loss is the observed yield loss ratio in percent,
                      damage function]            𝛼 is the intercept, 𝛽 is the regression coefficient, wd is the water
                                                  depth, 𝜀 is the error, and hmin is the minimum damageable flood
                                                  depth. hmin = 2cm.
                                                  𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒 𝑦𝑖𝑒𝑙𝑑 𝑙𝑜𝑠𝑠 (%) = 0 if wd < hmin.
                                                  𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒 𝑦𝑖𝑒𝑙𝑑 𝑙𝑜𝑠𝑠 (%) = 1 if wd > hsaturation.
                      Univariable Bayesian        See Supplementary Information                                            New
                      regression [probabilistic
                      stage-damage function]
       water depth,   Ramp function               𝑟𝑒𝑙𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒 𝑦𝑖𝑒𝑙𝑑 𝑙𝑜𝑠𝑠 (%) = (𝑤𝑑 − ℎ!"# ) ∗ >𝑎 + 𝑏 ∗ 𝐷$%&&' A               Shrestha et al. 2021
       duration,                                  where wd is water depth, hmin is the minimum damageable flood
       growth stage                               depth, Dflood is the flood duration in days, and a and b are constant
                                                  parameters that depend on the growth stage. The following
                                                  conditions apply:
                                                  If 𝑤𝑑 > 𝑆𝐿𝐶𝑆, then 𝑤𝑑 = 𝑤𝑎𝑡𝑒𝑟 𝑑𝑒𝑝𝑡ℎ 𝑎𝑡 𝑆𝐿𝐶𝑆,
                                                  where SLCS is the starting level of complete submergence of the
                                                  plant. Predicted relative yield loss values are constrained to the
                                                  range 0–100%.
                      Multivariable Bayesian      See Supplementary Information                                            New
                      regression
                      Random Forest               See Supplementary Information                                            New

170

      2.3 Model validation

      We evaluated model performance using 10-fold cross-validation (CV), applying leave-one-out (LOO) CV (Fig. S3), to assess
      predictive accuracy and cross-region validation (CRV) to test model transferability across locations. Leave-nothing-out (LNO)
      models were trained on the full dataset for future application. Table 4 summarizes the calibration and validation strategies for
175   each model type.
      Performance was assessed using three established metrics: mean absolute error (MAE), mean bias error (MBE), and continuous
      ranked probability score (CRPS). These allow for comparison across deterministic and probabilistic models and align with
      prior flood damage modeling studies (e.g., Schoppa et al., 2020; Gneiting and Katzfuss, 2014). Full definitions and formulas
      are provided in the Supplementary Information.


                                                                              7
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




180   We also assessed predictor importance for the multivariable models. For the Bayesian Regression Model, predictor relevance
      was derived from posterior coefficient distributions (see Suppl. Information, Section 2.2).
      Table 4: Overview of performance evaluation approaches. The Table presents the model category (either generalized or localized
      model), the data used to fit the model (calibration), and the data used to assess the performance (validation). It further describes the
      approach used, including Leave-one-(fold)-out (LOO) CV, Leave-nothing-out (LNO) (creation of models trained with all the data
185   for use in future risk assessments), and cross-region validation (CRV). Finally, the use case of each model type is mentioned.

       Model category                   Calibration                                Validation   Approach       Use case
                                        fit with all the data excluding the        Myanmar &                   Model evaluation
       Generalized models               training data for CV                       Thailand     LOO CV
                                                                                   Myanmar &                   For future use
       Generalized models*              fit with all the data                      Thailand     LNO
                                        fit with the Myanmar data excluding                                    Model evaluation
       Localized models for Myanmar     the training data for CV                   Myanmar      LOO CV
                                        fit with the Thailand data excluding                                   Model evaluation
       Localized models for Thailand    the training data for CV                   Thailand     LOO CV
                                                                                                               Spatial transferability
       Localized models for                                                                                    assessment and for
       Myanmar*                         fit with all the Myanmar data              Thailand     CRV            future use
                                                                                                               Spatial transferability
                                                                                                               assessment and for
       Localized models for Thailand*   fit with all the Thailand data             Myanmar      CRV            future use



      3 Results and discussion

      3.1 Summary statistics of the damage data used for the model development

      Figure 2 presents the kernel density estimations of the variable distributions for the datasets from Myanmar (n=515) and
      Thailand (n=137). In the Myanmar dataset, flood duration and water depth are more concentrated than in the Thailand dataset.
190   In Myanmar, yield loss occurred primarily in the vegetative stage (255 cases), followed by the reproductive stage (88) and the
      maturity stage (29). In Thailand, yield loss primarily occurred in the reproductive stage (88 cases), followed by the maturity
      stage (29) and the vegetative stage (20).




                                                                               8
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




      Fig. 2: Kernel density estimations of the variable distributions for the Myanmar and Thailand datasets, with lines representing the
195   quartiles and the dots showing the mean. Continuous variables were scaled to the range [0;1] and integers were assigned to each
      growth stage [(1) "vegetative stage", (2) "reproductive stage", (3) "maturity stage"].

      3.2 Model performance

      3.2.1 Performance of the generalized models

      We evaluated four model types: deterministic Stage-Damage Function (SDF), probabilistic SDF, Bayesian Regression Model
200   (BRM), and Random Forest (RF) model, using generalized (cross-regional) training data. Model performance was assessed
      using Mean Absolute Error (MAE), Mean Bias Error (MBE), and Continuous Ranked Probability Score (CRPS). Figure 3
      summarizes the results.
      Among the generalized models, RF achieved the best performance:
          •    MAE: RF had the lowest error (20.3%), followed by BRM (22.3%), probabilistic SDF (24.4%), and deterministic
205            SDF (26.3%).
          •    MBE: All models showed low bias, with RF (0.1%) performing best, followed by BRM (0.2%), deterministic SDF
               (0.4%), and the probabilistic SDF (0.5%).
          •    CRPS: RF also achieved the lowest CRPS (12.4%), indicating stronger probabilistic prediction performance than the
               BRM (14.2%) and the probabilistic SDF (15.4%).
210   Model complexity improved performance consistently: multivariable models (RF and BRM) outperformed the simpler
      univariable SDFs. Moreover, model complexity reduced the range of the MBE observed in the CV. These gains in accuracy
      suggest that incorporating multiple flood characteristics – more precisely, water depth, duration, and growth stage – enhances
      prediction quality.

                                                                      9
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




215
      Fig. 3: Results of performance evaluation and transferability assessment. Results are shown for three performance metrics (rows)
      and four calibration setups (generalized, localized for Myanmar and Thailand, and localized with data by Shrestha et al.) (columns).
      Colors indicate the model types (RF, BRM, probabilistic and deterministic SDF). Boxplots show the 10-fold cross-validation results.
      The thick line is the median; boxes represent the interquartile range (IQR); whiskers extend to 1.5×IQR; and black points are
220   outliers. Each box summarizes variability across 10 folds. Shapes indicate the performance of transferred models (CRV). Red solid
      lines mark the performance of the benchmark ramp functions in Myanmar and dashed blue lines mark their performance in
      Thailand.

                                                                      10
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




      3.2.2 Comparison of the new models with the ramp functions from the literature

      To benchmark model performance, we compared the new models against the ramp functions from Shrestha et al. (2021), which
225   were developed for rice in Myanmar. When tested on the full dataset (Myanmar + Thailand), the ramp functions yielded an
      MAE of 23.3% and an MBE of 5.3%.
      Compared to this baseline:
          •    RF and BRM reduced the MAE by 6% and 4%, respectively.
          •    All new models showed significantly lower bias, with bias reductions ranging from 4.8 (RF) to 3.5 (deterministic
230            SDF) percentage points compared to the ramp functions.
          •    The deterministic and probabilistic SDF had a slightly higher MAE (+3.5 and +2 percentage points, respectively),
               indicating limitations when excluding duration and growth stage.
      To enable a more direct comparison with the ramp functions, we also trained all models using only the Shrestha et al. (2021)
      dataset. In this restricted setting:
235       •    The MAE for RF and BRM converged with that of the ramp functions (around 23%).
          •    Both SDFs performed worse (MAE = 28.4%).
          •    All new models exhibited lower bias (MBE of 0.0–1.0%) than the ramp functions (MBE = 3.2%).
      This confirms that while point prediction accuracy can be similar, the new models – especially RF and BRM – offer improved
      calibration and flexibility, particularly for regional or large-scale applications where reducing systematic bias is critical for
240   accurate loss estimation.

      3.3 Predictor importance in the Random Forest

      We assessed predictor importance in the generalized and localized RF models to understand which variables most strongly
      influence predicted relative yield loss (Fig. 4). Importance values reflect the overall contribution of each predictor (water depth,
      flood duration, and growth stage) to model performance (Hothorn and Zeileis, 2023). Additionally, we also assessed the BRM
245   coefficients (Fig. S6).
      In the generalized RF model and the localized model for Myanmar, flood duration emerged as the most important predictor,
      followed by water depth. Growth stage contributed the least. In contrast, the localized RF model for Thailand ranked water
      depth highest, with flood duration playing a secondary role. Growth stage showed almost no importance in the Thailand model.
      These differences likely reflect regional and dataset-specific factors. The Myanmar dataset includes flood events across a wider
250   range of growth stages and more variability in flood timing, which may explain the greater role of duration. In Thailand, floods
      tended to occur during a narrower window in the reproductive stage, reducing the influence of the growth stage as a predictor.
      In addition, Thailand’s landscape includes greater elevation differences, and the dataset captures a wider range of water depths,
      likely increasing the relative importance of water depth in that model.



                                                                      11
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




      Despite these insights, some expected relationships (shorter floods and lower water depths leading to less severe losses) were
255   not consistently observed. This may be due to the limited number of predictor variables collected. Other relevant factors –
      such as rice variety, water turbidity, pest or disease pressure, plant health, and floodwater rise rate – were not included in the
      surveys but could influence outcomes. The growth stage variable disregards variability in the plants’ vulnerability to flooding
      within a growth stage – further investigation would be needed to confirm if this can explain the low importance of growth
      stage in the model trained on the Myanmar dataset (which shows variability in growth stages). The skewed nature of the
260   Thailand dataset, which overrepresents high-damage events, may also affect predictor importance.




      Fig. 4: Violin plots indicating the kernel density estimations of the variable distributions for the two locations, with lines representing
      the quartiles and the dots showing the mean. Variables were scaled to the range [0;1].

      3.4 Transferability of flood damage models

265   Understanding the performance of flood damage models under transfer is essential for practical risk assessment in data-scarce
      contexts. We assessed the performance of generalized models (LOO-CV) and localized models (cross-region validation) in
      Thailand and Myanmar. Figure 3 shows the performance of transferred models (points for validation in Myanmar and triangles
      for validation in Thailand). Tables S6 and S7 report the performance metrics under transfer. The results provide four key
      findings, which are further described below:
270       •    Local models perform best; transfer reduces accuracy, especially with skewed training data.
          •    Complex models (RF, BRM) generally transfer better than simple ones (including the baseline ramp functions from
               the literature), but they still lose performance without representative damage data.
          •    The direction of bias matters: overprediction may lead to high insurance costs; underprediction may leave risks
               underestimated.
275       •    Generalized models can work across regions if trained on diverse data that captures relevant damage processes.
                                                                          12
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




      Local models outperform transferred models. In Myanmar, the worst-performing localized model for Myanmar (SDF-det)
      outperforms the best-performing transferred localized model for Thailand (SDF-prob). The same holds for Thailand, where
      the simplest localized model (SDF-det) outperforms the best complex transferred model trained in Myanmar (RF). The
      MAEs of the worst-performing Myanmar-trained model and the best-performing TH-trained model differ by 11.4
280   percentage points, which can lead to considerable differences in the loss estimates. This highlights the importance of
      assessing model performance and transferability.
      Complex models (RF, BRM) generally transfer better than simple ones, but they still lose performance in the absence of
      representative damage data. The deterministic SDF loses the most predictive accuracy when transferred. The deterministic
      SDFs are unable to capture complex, nonlinear interactions, which makes them less applicable to new contexts with
285   different conditions from the data they are trained on. To enable a direct comparison of the new models with the ramp
      functions, we also tested the transferability of the new models trained only on the Shrestha et al. (2021) dataset. In this restricted
      setting, all new models except for the deterministic SDF outperformed the Shrestha et al. ramp functions in terms of MAE
      (Fig. 3 and Table S7).
      Model transferability suffers when training data is skewed and does not comprehensively represent local damage
290   characteristics. The models trained on Thailand data show poor transferability to Myanmar, with MAEs of 27-29% and over
      50% for low-loss events (Fig. S7) – regardless of the model type. Focusing on major flood events, the survey data collected in
      Thailand was skewed toward extreme events, which resulted in a lack of low-loss cases. Even the best ML algorithm cannot
      perform well without data that captures relevant local damage processes. Broader data coverage would improve performance
      in transfer settings like Myanmar but also for predicting yield loss from small floods in Thailand.
295   The direction of the bias should be considered in spatial transfers; it differs depending on model type and flood characteristics
      (Fig. 3 and Fig. S7). In the present study, the localized Myanmar BRM tends to overestimate yield losses in Thailand, while
      the simple Myanmar models (SDF-det and SDF-prob) tend to underestimate yield losses – the RF has a low bias (Fig. 3). All
      models tend to overpredict losses concerning low-impact events. Models trained in Myanmar and validated in Thailand tend
      to underpredict losses from short floods and shallow water depth. In contrast, models trained in Thailand and validated in
300   Myanmar show the reverse trend; they overpredict losses under these conditions (Fig. S7). Overprediction may lead to high
      insurance costs, while underprediction may lead to insufficient allocation of disaster response resources.
      Generalized models perform well across regions if trained on sufficient data. They outperformed transferred models on all
      three performance metrics (MAE, MBE, Mean CRPS). The generalized models perform better in Thailand than in Myanmar,
      likely because the Thailand dataset contains fewer low-loss cases for which the model predictions are less accurate. For floods
305   resulting in smaller losses, all generalized models tend to overpredict the loss (Fig. S7).
      Limitations in the spatial transfer analysis were the difference in sample size of the datasets for each region and a small number
      of regions considered (n=2). The transferred models show a considerable error, which could result from uncertainty in the
      historical data, a limited total sample size (n=652), a skewed Thailand dataset (towards high losses), and the lack of variables
      that capture potentially critical damage processes in the model.

                                                                       13
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




310   3.5 Reporting of flood damage models for rice

      To support practical application of our damage models in agricultural flood risk assessments, we present the outputs (Fig. 6b-
      e) and lookup tables (Tables S8-S11) for the generalized models: the deterministic and probabilistic stage-damage functions
      (SDF-det and SDF-prob), the Bayesian Regression Model (BRM), and the Random Forest (RF) model. Lookup tables for the
      models developed in this study are provided in the Supplementary Information.
315   We also include a review of existing flood damage models for rice, expanding on the compilation by Shrestha et al. (2021) by
      incorporating both peer-reviewed and grey literature. The models are categorized by predictor variables, region of application,
      and modeling approach. This inventory – selected models of which are shown in Fig. 6a – provides context for the development
      of more flexible, multivariable, and probabilistic approaches presented in this study.

      3.5.1 Inventory of existing flood damage models for rice

320   We created an inventory of flood damage models for rice, comprising 20 models from 12 countries. Figure 5 presents a
      structured overview of flood damage models for rice in the inventory (categories adapted from Gerl et al. (2016)). Half of the
      models are based on empirical data, 20% rely on experimental data with potted rice, and another 20% are based on expert
      knowledge. Model validation was reported for 40% of all models, and model transferability was only tested for a single model,
      the ramp functions by Shrestha et al. (2021). Less than half of the models incorporate growth stage as a predictor. Two-thirds
325   of the models incorporate flood duration as a predictor, primarily as a categorized variable (60% of all models) and rarely as
      a continuous variable (15% of all models). No model offers probabilistic outputs or formal uncertainty analysis. This highlights
      the need for more data-driven, multivariable, and transferable models.
      Fig. 6a presents a selection of damage models from the inventory. The majority are deterministic stage-damage functions that
      relate percentage yield loss to water depth using simplified threshold or ramp functions, often for different duration classes. A
330   summary of the models in the inventory is provided in Table S5. The inventory of flood damage models, including an overview
      of the model characteristics, the damage datasets, and lookup tables, is publicly available (Bill-Weilandt et al., 2025). Lookup
      tables for the generalized models developed in this study are presented in the inventory and Tables S8-S11. The generalized
      and localized models are available for use in flood damage assessments in rice-cultivating regions (see Data Availability
      Statement).




                                                                     14
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




335
      Fig. 5: Characteristics of flood damage models for rice in the inventory. The Figure shows model characteristics, including the
      methodology to build the model, the model concept (deterministic or probabilistic), and whether model validation and model
      transferability assessment were reported in the publication. The four columns on the right indicate the inclusion and format of three
      commonly used predictors (water depth, duration, and growth stage) and the damage format. When a publication presented multiple
340   model variations with the same variables for one country, the model was counted once.

      3.5.2 Stage-damage functions (SDF-det and SDF-prob)

      Figures 6b and 6c show predictions from the deterministic and probabilistic versions of the stage-damage function (SDF). Both
      models are univariable and rely on water depth as the sole predictor. The SDFs predict a smooth, gradual increase in relative
      yield loss with increasing water depth. The deterministic SDF shows a steeper increase of relative yield loss at lower water
345   depth and reaches complete loss at 3.15 m. In contrast, the probabilistic SDF shows a steeper increase at higher water depths,
      predicting complete loss at 1.40 m (median), while reaching complete loss at 2.03 m is also plausible based on the 25th
      percentile.
      While less accurate (higher MAE and MBE) and flexible than multivariable models, the SDFs are simple to apply and useful
      in data-scarce contexts. Lookup tables for the SDFs are provided in Tables S8 and S9.




                                                                       15
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




350   3.5.3 Bayesian Regression Model (BRM)

      Figure 6d shows predictions from the BRM, a multivariable, probabilistic model using water depth and flood duration as
      predictors, disaggregated by growth stage. The model estimates encompass not only expected median yield loss (line) but also
      the uncertainty around predictions (25th – 75th percentile ribbon).
      The BRM indicates that young rice plants are more vulnerable to flooding than more mature ones. As plants grow taller and
355   reach advanced growth stages, yield loss increases more gradually with increasing water depth, and complete loss occurs at
      greater water depth.
          •    Vegetative stage: Complete loss occurs at relatively shallow water depths – a four-day flood at 1.4 m depth or a 27-
               day flood at 1.0 m.
          •    Reproductive stage: Higher tolerance is observed, with complete loss reached after a four-day flood at 1.72 m or a
360            27-day flood at 1.49 m.
          •    Maturity stage: This is the most resilient stage, where complete loss occurs only at water depths exceeding 2 m - after
               a four-day flood at 2.18 m or a 27-day flood at 2.00 m.
      These findings highlight the combined influence of water depth, duration, and growth stage on yield loss, and indicate that
      even short-duration floods can lead to total yield loss in the vegetative stage. Reasons for the low loss in the maturity stage
365   include the plant height and the possibility of early harvest to mitigate yield losses. By providing a distribution of possible
      predictions, probabilistic models like the BRM make uncertainty in the loss estimates visible and capture unlikely extreme
      events. Lookup tables for the BRM are provided in Table S10.

      3.5.4 Random Forest model (RF)

      Figure 6e shows predictions from the RF model, a non-parametric ensemble method that captures complex nonlinear
370   relationships and interactions between predictors.
          •    The RF predicts stepwise increases of the relative yield loss with rising water depth, shown by flat segments followed
               by sharp increases of the damage curve, reflecting the tree-based model structure; it partitions the predictor space into
               discrete regions rather than fitting continuous functions.
          •    Across all growth stages, yield loss tends to plateau at a similar water depth (~2 m). In contrast to the BRM (where
375            all curves plateau at complete loss), the RF curves for shorter flood durations plateau at lower relative yield loss.
          •    The maximum relative yield loss increases with longer durations and decreases with advanced growth stages; it is the
               highest in the vegetative stage (95 %), followed by the reproductive stage (94 %), and lowest in the maturity stage
               (88 %).
          •    The maximum relative yield loss slightly increases with growth stage, and slightly decreases with later growth stages,
380            indicating that more mature plants are more resilient.



                                                                     16
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




          •    Greater variability in the predictions is observed at water depths above 2 m, as indicated by the wider interquartile
               range.
      While the RF model achieved the highest predictive accuracy overall (lowest MAE), it is more difficult to interpret and
      communicate than SDF and BRM models. Lookup tables for the RF model are provided in Table S11.

385   3.5.5 Summary and practical application

      Each model provides distinct advantages depending on the intended application:
          •    SDF-det and SDF-prob are simple, interpretable, and suitable for settings with limited data.
          •    BRM offers transparency, probabilistic outputs, and robust performance, making it appropriate for informed policy
               planning.
390       •    RF provides high predictive accuracy and captures complex nonlinear effects, best suited for data-rich applications.
      The accompanying lookup tables enable rapid, non-technical application of these models for insurance pricing, disaster risk
      assessment, and climate adaptation planning. Users may select a model based on available inputs, intended use, and the
      required level of interpretability.




                                                                   17
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




395   Fig. 6: Flood damage models for rice. The Figure presents predictions by selected models from the literature (panel a, see Table S5)
      and from the generalized models developed in this study, including the deterministic and probabilistic SDF (panels b-c) and two
      probabilistic, multivariable models: Bayesian Regression Model (panel d) and Random Forest (panel e). Solid lines represent the
      median prediction of the BRM and the mean prediction from the ensemble of trees in the RF; shaded ribbons show the interquartile
      range (25th to 75th percentile).

                                                                      18
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




400   4 Conclusion

      Flooding is a leading cause of agricultural loss in rice-growing regions globally, and climate change is expected to increase
      both the frequency and severity of flood events. Yet existing flood damage models for rice remain limited in flexibility,
      generalizability, and probabilistic prediction capability. We introduced the CROPDAM-X framework for developing and
      validating flood damage models for crops. In this study, we applied the framework to build and evaluate a suite of flood
405   damage models for rice. We provide several models – specifically, higher-performing Random Forest and Bayesian Regression
      Models for data-rich contexts and simpler, deterministic and probabilistic stage-damage functions for data-scarce contexts.
      The models can be integrated into tools such as AGRIDE-c to assess the economic impacts on farmers under various risk
      reduction strategies (Molinari et al., 2019).
      Our findings highlight that the generalized RF model performs best, with an MAE of 20%, an MBE of 0.1%, and a CRPS of
410   12%, followed by the generalized multivariate BRM. The results indicate that each model provides unique strengths depending
      on the use case: Exceling in predictive power and modeling complex nonlinear relationships, RF models are best suited to
      data-rich applications. BRM are easier to interpret than RF models, tend to provide stronger probabilistic outputs on smaller
      datasets (as shown by the localized model validation), and solid performance, making them appropriate for evidence-based
      flood risk management policymaking. The simple stage-damage functions with water depth as the only predictor are easy to
415   interpret and ideal for contexts where data availability is limited.
      This study also provides a systematic investigation of transferability of rice damage models across regions. We find limited
      transferability of localized models across regions, especially when data is skewed. RF models show the most consistent
      performance, making them the most reliable for cross-regional applications, especially when aiming for a low bias in large-
      scale assessments. In contrast, BRM and deterministic SDF exhibit higher bias and error, highlighting the challenges of
420   transferring them. The direction of bias matters: Overprediction may lead to over-preparedness and underprediction may leave
      risks underestimated.
      Expanding datasets to include more variables and a broader spectrum of flood characteristics is essential to cover important
      damage processes, which could improve performance, transferability, and answer open questions regarding the variable
      importance in the RF models. Future research could apply CROPDAM-X to other crops and regions. A global inventory of
425   available flood damage data categorized by crop and country would be necessary to scale up crop-specific, multi-variable
      models developed and validated using the CROPDAM-X framework.




                                                                      19
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




430   Author contributions

      ABW: Conceptualization, data curation, formal analysis (lead), writing – original draft preparation, funding acquisition

      NS: Methodology, formal analysis (supporting), writing - reviewing & editing

      DW: Methodology, writing – review & editing

      KRS: Methodology

435   HK: Writing – reviewing & editing, supervision

      PH: Writing – review & editing

      DL: Conceptualization, writing – review & editing, supervision, funding acquisition

      All authors read and approved the final manuscript.

      Data availability

440   The inventory of flood damage models and data for rice is published (Bill-Weilandt et al., 2025). The inventory file includes
      lookup tables for models from the literature and models developed in this paper. The best performing models built in this paper
      are available on GitHub https://github.com/ntu-dasl-sg/flood_damage_models_rice. We used the varimp() function from the
      partykit package in R to measure variable importance (Hothorn and Zeileis, 2023).

      Competing interests

445   Some authors are members of the editorial board of the journal Natural Hazards and Earth System Sciences.

      Acknowledgements

      We thank the Stockholm Environment Institute Asia (Parichat Pinsri, Ridhi Saluja, Thanapon Piman, and Niall O’Connor),
      the Asian Institute of Technology (Ho Huu Loc), Nakhon Phanom University (ปิ ตณ
                                                                                    ิ ชั ไศลบาท), and Nanyang Technological
      University (Fernando, Indraneel Kasmalkar, Aishah Kasmadi, and Mary Lim Gim Hong) for supporting the project. We are
450   grateful for the inputs provided by Shelly Win on the interpretation of the damage dataset for Myanmar.

      Financial support

      This research is supported by the Ministry of Education, Singapore, under its NTU Singapore International Graduate Award
      and its MOE AcRF Tier 2 Award MOE-T2EP50222-0016 and MOE AcRF Tier 3 Award MOE2019-T3-1-004. ABW’s
      research is supported by the Dr. Stephen Riady Geoscience Scholars Fund. NS is funded by the project HI-CliF (grant no.
455   01LN2209A) by the BMFTR.




                                                                    20
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




      References

      Apel, H., Aronica, G. T., Kreibich, H., and Thieken, A. H.: Flood risk analyses—how detailed do we need to be?, Nat Hazards,
      49, 79–98, https://doi.org/10.1007/s11069-008-9277-8, 2009.

      Bill-Weilandt, A., Lallemant, D., and Hamel, P.: Inventory of flood damage models and data for rice,
460   https://doi.org/10.21979/N9/OZGWXE, 2025.

      Brémond, P., Grelot, F., and Agenais, A.-L.: Review Article: Economic evaluation of flood damage to agriculture – review
      and analysis of existing methods, Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 13, 2493–2512, https://doi.org/10.5194/nhess-13-2493-2013,
      2013.

      Brémond, P., Agenais, A.-L., Grelot, F., and Richert, C.: Process-based flood damage modelling relying on expert knowledge:
465   a methodological contribution applied to the agricultural sector, Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 22, 3385–3412,
      https://doi.org/10.5194/nhess-22-3385-2022, 2022.

      Budhathoki, A., Tanaka, T., and Tachikawa, Y.: Developing flood risk curves of agricultural economic damage under climate
      change in the Lower Chao Phraya River Basin, Thailand, J Flood Risk Management, 17, e13031,
      https://doi.org/10.1111/jfr3.13031, 2024.

470   Davis, B., Mane, E., Gurbuzer, L. Y., Caivano, G., Piedrahita, N., Schneider, K., Azhar, N., Benali, M., Chaudhary, N., Rivera,
      R., Ambikapathi, R., and Winters, P.: Estimating global and country-level employment in agrifood systems, Food and
      Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), Rome, Italy, https://doi.org/10.4060/cc4337en, 2023.

      De Moel, H., Asselman, N. E. M., and Aerts, J. C. J. H.: Uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of coastal flood damage estimates
      in the west of the Netherlands, Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 12, 1045–1058, https://doi.org/10.5194/nhess-12-1045-2012,
475   2012.

      Dottori, F., Figueiredo, R., Martina, M. L. V., Molinari, D., and Scorzini, A. R.: INSYDE: a synthetic, probabilistic flood
      damage model based on explicit cost analysis, Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 16, 2577–2591, https://doi.org/10.5194/nhess-
      16-2577-2016, 2016.

      Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA): Hazus Flood Model Technical Manual 2.1: Multi-hazard Loss Estimation
480   Methodology Flood Model, 2020.

      Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO): The Impact of Disasters on Agriculture and Food Security
      2023 – Avoiding and reducing losses through investment in resilience, Rome, https://doi.org/10.4060/cc7900en, 2023.

      Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD),
      United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), World Food Programme (WFP), and World Health Organization (WHO): The
485   state of food security and nutrition in the world 2024: Financing to end hunger, food insecurity and malnutrition in all its forms,
      FAO; IFAD; UNICEF; WFP; WHO;, https://doi.org/10.4060/cd1254en, 2024.

      Förster, S., Kuhlmann, B., Lindenschmidt, K.-E., and Bronstert, A.: Assessing flood risk for a rural detention area, Nat.
      Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 8, 311–322, https://doi.org/10.5194/nhess-8-311-2008, 2008.

      Gerl, T., Kreibich, H., Franco, G., Marechal, D., and Schröter, K.: A Review of Flood Loss Models as Basis for Harmonization
490   and Benchmarking, PLoS ONE, 11, e0159791, https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0159791, 2016.



                                                                      21
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




      Hothorn, T. and Zeileis, A.: partykit: A Toolkit for Recursive Partytioning, https://doi.org/10.32614/CRAN.package.partykit,
      2023.

      Hu, T., Zhang, X., Khanal, S., Wilson, R., Leng, G., Toman, E. M., Wang, X., Li, Y., and Zhao, K.: Climate change impacts
      on crop yields: A review of empirical findings, statistical crop models, and machine learning methods, Environmental
495   Modelling & Software, 179, 106119, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2024.106119, 2024.

      Huizinga, J., de Moel, H., and Szewczyk, W.: Global flood depth-damage functions: methodology and the database with
      guidelines., Publications Office of the European Union, Luxembourg, 2017.

      Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC): Climate Change 2022: Impacts, Adaptation, and Vulnerability.
      Contribution of Working Group II to the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, edited
500   by: Pörtner, H.-O., Roberts, D. C., Tignor, M., Poloczanska, E. S., Mintenbeck, K., Alegría, A., Craig, M., Langsdorf, S.,
      Löschke, S., Möller, V., Okem, A., and Rama, B., 2022.

      Jongman, B., Kreibich, H., Apel, H., Barredo, J. I., Bates, P. D., Feyen, L., Gericke, A., Neal, J., Aerts, J. C. J. H., and Ward,
      P. J.: Comparative flood damage model assessment: towards a European approach, Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 12, 3733–
      3752, https://doi.org/10.5194/nhess-12-3733-2012, 2012.

505   Kim, Y.-U., Webber, H., Adiku, S. G. K., Nóia Júnior, R. D. S., Deswarte, J.-C., Asseng, S., and Ewert, F.: Mechanisms and
      modelling approaches for excessive rainfall stress on cereals: Waterlogging, submergence, lodging, pests and diseases,
      Agricultural and Forest Meteorology, 344, 109819, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.agrformet.2023.109819, 2024.

      Lazin, R., Shen, X., and Anagnostou, E.: Estimation of flood-damaged cropland area using a convolutional neural network,
      Environ. Res. Lett., 16, 054011, https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/abeba0, 2021.

510   Li, Y., Guan, K., Schnitkey, G. D., DeLucia, E., and Peng, B.: Excessive rainfall leads to maize yield loss of a comparable
      magnitude to extreme drought in the United States, Global Change Biology, 25, 2325–2337,
      https://doi.org/10.1111/gcb.14628, 2019.

      Liu, W., Li, Z., Li, Y., Ye, T., Chen, S., and Liu, Y.: Heterogeneous impacts of excessive wetness on maize yields in China:
      Evidence from statistical yields and process-based crop models, Agricultural and Forest Meteorology, 327, 109205,
515   https://doi.org/10.1016/j.agrformet.2022.109205, 2022.

      Molinari, D., Scorzini, A. R., Gallazzi, A., and Ballio, F.: AGRIDE-c, a conceptual model for the estimation of flood damage
      to crops: development and implementation, Nat. Hazards Earth Syst. Sci., 19, 2565–2582, https://doi.org/10.5194/nhess-19-
      2565-2019, 2019.

      Monteleone, B., Giusti, R., Magnini, A., Arosio, M., Domeneghetti, A., Borzì, I., Petruccelli, N., Castellarin, A., Bonaccorso,
520   B., and Martina, M. L. V.: Estimations of Crop Losses Due to Flood Using Multiple Sources of Information and Models: The
      Case Study of the Panaro River, Water, 15, 1980, https://doi.org/10.3390/w15111980, 2023a.

      Monteleone, B., Borzí, I., Bonaccorso, B., and Martina, M.: Quantifying crop vulnerability to weather-related extreme events
      and climate change through vulnerability curves, Nat Hazards, 116, 2761–2796, https://doi.org/10.1007/s11069-022-05791-0,
      2023b.

525   Nguyen, N. Y., Kha, D. D., and Ichikawa, Y.: Developing a multivariable lookup table function for estimating flood damages
      of rice crop in Vietnam using a secondary research approach, International Journal of Disaster Risk Reduction, 58, 102208,
      https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijdrr.2021.102208, 2021.


                                                                     22
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




      Nhangumbe, M., Nascetti, A., Georganos, S., and Ban, Y.: Supervised and unsupervised machine learning approaches using
      Sentinel data for flood mapping and damage assessment in Mozambique, Remote Sensing Applications: Society and
530   Environment, 32, 101015, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rsase.2023.101015, 2023.

      Pasquel, D., Roux, S., Richetti, J., Cammarano, D., Tisseyre, B., and Taylor, J. A.: A review of methods to evaluate crop model
      performance at multiple and changing spatial scales, Precision Agric, 23, 1489–1513, https://doi.org/10.1007/s11119-022-
      09885-4, 2022.

      Penning-Rowsell, E. C. (Ed.): Flood and coastal erosion risk management: a manual for economic appraisal, Routledge, New
535   York, 1 pp., https://doi.org/10.4324/9780203066393, 2013.

      Penning-Rowsell, E. C., Johnson, C., Tunstall, S., Tapsell, S., Morris, J., Chatterton, J., and Green, C.: The benefits of flood
      and coastal risk management: a handbook of assessment techniques, Middlesex Univ. Press, London, 81 pp., 2005.

      Priyatikanto, R., Lu, Y., Dash, J., and Sheffield, J.: Improving generalisability and transferability of machine-learning-based
      maize yield prediction model through domain adaptation, Agricultural and Forest Meteorology, 341, 109652,
540   https://doi.org/10.1016/j.agrformet.2023.109652, 2023.

      Ramsar: Ramsar Information Sheet for Thailand Lower Songkhram River, 2019.

      Ramsar Site Information Service: Information Sheet on Ramsar Wetlands. Ramsar Site no. 1431, 2004.

      Sairam, N., Schröter, K., Carisi, F., Wagenaar, D., Domeneghetti, A., Molinari, D., Brill, F., Priest, S., Viavattene, C., Merz,
      B., and Kreibich, H.: Bayesian Data-Driven approach enhances synthetic flood loss models, Environmental Modelling &
545   Software, 132, 104798, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.envsoft.2020.104798, 2020.

      Schröter, K., Kreibich, H., Vogel, K., Riggelsen, C., Scherbaum, F., and Merz, B.: How useful are complex flood damage
      models?, Water Resources Research, 50, 3378–3395, https://doi.org/10.1002/2013WR014396, 2014.

      Scorzini, A. R., Di Bacco, M., and Manella, G.: Regional flood risk analysis for agricultural crops: Insights from the
      implementation of AGRIDE-c in central Italy, International Journal of Disaster Risk Reduction, 53, 101999,
550   https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijdrr.2020.101999, 2021.

      Shrestha, B. B., Okazumi, T., Miyamoto, M., and Sawano, H.: Flood damage assessment in the Pampanga River basin of the
      Philippines, J. Flood Risk Manag., 9, 355–369, https://doi.org/10.1111/jfr3.12174, 2016.

      Shrestha, B. B., Kawasaki, A., and Zin, W. W.: Development of flood damage functions for agricultural crops and their
      applicability     in   regions     of    Asia,    Journal of  Hydrology:    Regional     Studies,     36,    100872,
555   https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejrh.2021.100872, 2021.

      Stiller, S., Grahmann, K., Ghazaryan, G., and Ryo, M.: Improving spatial transferability of deep learning models for small-
      field crop yield prediction, ISPRS Open Journal of Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, 12, 100064,
      https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ophoto.2024.100064, 2024.

      Tapia-Silva, F.-O., Itzerott, S., Foerster, S., Kuhlmann, B., and Kreibich, H.: Estimation of flood losses to agricultural crops
560   using     remote     sensing,      Physics     and   Chemistry     of    the     Earth,   Parts    A/B/C,      36,    253–265,
      https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pce.2011.03.005, 2011.




                                                                    23
      https://doi.org/10.5194/egusphere-2025-3706
      Preprint. Discussion started: 18 September 2025
       c Author(s) 2025. CC BY 4.0 License.




      Wagenaar, D., Lüdtke, S., Schröter, K., Bouwer, L. M., and Kreibich, H.: Regional and Temporal Transferability of
      Multivariable Flood Damage Models, Water Resources Research, 54, 3688–3703, https://doi.org/10.1029/2017WR022233,
      2018.

565   Win, S., Zin, W. W., Kawasaki, A., and San, Z. M. L. T.: Establishment of flood damage function models: A case study in the
      Bago River Basin, Myanmar, International Journal of Disaster Risk Reduction, 28, 688–700,
      https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijdrr.2018.01.030, 2018.




                                                                  24
