                                               Uncertainty Guarantees on Automated Precision
                                                   Weeding using Conformal Prediction1
                                                                  Paul Melki 1,2 , Lionel Bombrun 1,3 , Boubacar Diallo 2 ,
                                                                       Jérôme Dias 2 & Jean-Pierre Da Costa 1,3

                                               1
                                                   Univ. Bordeaux, CNRS, Bordeaux INP, IMS, UMR 5218, F-33400 Talence, France
                                                                   2
                                                                     EXXACT Robotics, F-51200 Épernay, France
                                                               3
                                                                 Bordeaux Sciences Agro, F-33175 Gradignan, France
                                                                       paul.melki@exxact-robotics.com



                                                                                            Abstract
                                                   Precision agriculture in general, and precision weeding in particular, have greatly benefited
arXiv:2501.07185v1 [cs.CV] 13 Jan 2025




                                                   from the major advancements in deep learning and computer vision. A large variety of
                                                   commercial robotic solutions are already available and deployed. However, the adoption
                                                   by farmers of such solutions is still low for many reasons, an important one being the lack
                                                   of trust in these systems. This is in great part due to the opaqueness and complexity
                                                   of deep neural networks and the manufacturers’ inability to provide valid guarantees on
                                                   their performance. Conformal prediction, a well-established methodology in the machine
                                                   learning community, is an efficient and reliable strategy for providing trustworthy guaran-
                                                   tees on the predictions of any black-box model under very minimal constraints. Bridging
                                                   the gap between the safe machine learning and precision agriculture communities, this
                                                   article showcases conformal prediction in action on the task of precision weeding through
                                                   deep learning-based image classification. After a detailed presentation of the conformal
                                                   prediction methodology and the development of a precision spraying pipeline based on a
                                                   “conformalized” neural network and well-defined spraying decision rules, the article eval-
                                                   uates this pipeline on two real-world scenarios: one under in-distribution conditions, the
                                                   other reflecting a near out-of-distribution setting. The results show that we are able to
                                                   provide formal, i.e. certifiable, guarantees on spraying at least 90% of the weeds.

                                         Keywords: Conformal prediction; precision weeding; deep learning; uncertainty; safe machine
                                         learning.


                                         1         Introduction
                                         Precision agriculture, just like a multitude of other science and engineering domains, has greatly
                                         benefited from the large and quick-paced advancements in machine learning over the last decade
                                         [13, 37]. The methods have been ingeniously adapted – and sometimes improved – to appli-
                                         cations in agriculture, spanning plant phenotyping [24, 64], disease identification [18], weed
                                         detection [12, 27], yield estimation [56, 48], and soil monitoring [69, 55], among others. These
                                         methods have allowed practitioners to keep pace with the ever-increasing quantity and diver-
                                         sity of data associated with precision agriculture practices. Indeed, multiple data modalities
                                         are now involved, often in the same system or use case. These include RGB, multispectral and
                                         hyperspectral images, text, LiDAR and RADAR data, GNSS and location data, and acoustic
                                         signals to name only a few [33].
                                             Deep neural networks are singled out, in both scientific literature and industrial applications,
                                         as the most powerful approach to “make sense” of this considerable flood of data [34]. These
                                         multi-layered mathematical models whose architecture can be adapted to the type of data in
                                         input and the desired output have become more common with the advancements of software
                                         tools that allow users to import, train and deploy them with relatively simple programming
                                         steps [11, 53]. Their adoption has also been facilitated by the advances in adapted hardware
                                         and their wider availability (such as graphical processing units) along with the development of
                                             1 Preprint. Currently under review.




                                                                                                1
tools and methods that have allowed their embedding and deployment on the edge in the wild
for various agricultural applications [19, 75].
    Although neural networks have shown their superiority in terms of predictive accuracy on a
majority of applications and benchmark datasets, they still lag behind other predictive models
on a number of highly desirable characteristics [15], such as good interpretability [61, 76],
robustness to aberrant observations [42, 58], and good estimation of prediction confidence [26,
46, 47]. The opaqueness and complexity of neural networks, combined with an often ignored
caveat – which is the lack of valid guarantees on the quality of the predictions under real-world
conditions [73, 14, 29], puts the users of deep learning models in front of a difficult conflict
between predictive performance “in the lab”, and a certain lack of trust in the predictive
system to be deployed in the real-world. This trade-off is not only faced by developers of
precision agriculture systems employing deep learning approaches. It has repercussions on the
end-users of the systems, the farmers. Scientists and manufacturers propose systems that not
only contain vital components that the farmers do not understand, but also to which we do not
associate trustworthy guarantees. This gets translated as a lack of trust in the systems proposed
to the practitioners and leads, in consequence, to a reduced adoption of precision agriculture
systems [2]. Farmers are reluctant to invest in technologies that do not come with quality
guarantees because the economic and environmental risks associated with system malfunction
are high [54, 67].
    Conformal prediction [73, 4, 63, 51] has gained much attention in recent years in the machine
learning community. This methodology is an efficient and reliable strategy for providing formal
valid guarantees on the predictions of any black-box model, including neural networks, under
very minimal constraints. This makes it very attractive for real-world deployment. It constitutes
an important step towards shipping trustworthy and certifiable machine learning models [30, 7].
While conformal prediction has already been applied in a number of fields where safety and
reliability are critical, such as medical diagnosis [50, 40], autonomous driving [38], robotics
[36, 41], and even nuclear fusion [68], among others [7, 3, 70], its integration into agricultural
and environmental use cases is still limited and in its early stages [10, 20, 32, 43, 44].
    The aim of this article is to bridge the gap between the safe machine learning and precision
agriculture communities by showcasing conformal prediction in action on the task of precision
weed spraying through deep learning-based image classification. Working with a proprietary
database of weed and crop images acquired in Europe, we develop a conformal prediction-based
pipeline that guarantees the detection of at least 90% of weeds.

Main Contributions – The article’s main contributions may summarized as follows:

  • A detailed presentation of the conformal prediction methodology to the ag-tech commu-
    nity, including an overview of multiple nonconformity scores, two conformal algorithms
    (marginal split-conformal prediction and its class-conditional version) and the evaluation
    metrics;
  • The development of a conformal prediction-based precision spraying pipeline using a “con-
    formalized” neural network image classifier and well-defined spraying decision rules;
  • The evaluation of this pipeline and its comparison to a standard classification model under
    two experimental procedures reflecting real-world scenarios: one under in-distribution
    conditions, the other simulating a near out-of-distribution setting.

    In Section 3.1 we begin by presenting the extensive database collected internally and used to
conduct the study. Section 2.1 constitutes the foundation of this work. It begins with a general
introduction to conformal prediction and its main ingredients followed by a presentation of the
central notion of nonconformity score and a detailed description of multiple scores studied here.
We then present two important algorithms: split-conformal prediction and class-conditional
conformal prediction. Section 2.2 quickly presents the neural network used in the pipeline.
Section 2.3 details the rules defined in the pipeline for deciding to spray or not, and Section 2.4
presents the various evaluation metrics used in our work. In Section 3 we present, the data used


                                                2
in the empirical study and, in turn, each experiment: its setup and then its results. In Section
4 we discuss the experimental results and the role of conformal prediction in this context, then
conclude in Section 5.


2       Materials and Methods
2.1     Conformal Prediction
2.1.1    Overview and Main Components




Figure 1: A high level representation of how conformal prediction transforms any black-box
point predictor into a conformal set predictor.

    Conformal Prediction [73] is a general framework for quantifying and controlling uncertainty
in machine learning models without explicit assumptions on the data distribution. The essential
idea is quite simple: it consists of transforming any predictive model that produces point
predictions into a set or interval predictor (Figure 1). The prediction sets are constructed in
such a way as to guarantee the inclusion of the true value with a probability of 1 − α, where
α ∈ (0, 1) is the tolerance chosen by the user, typically taken to be 0.05 or 0.1. Concretely,
assume we have a couple of random variables (X, Y ) ∈ X ×Y from which we observe n examples
{(x1 , y1 ), ..., (xn , yn )}. For instance, X can be an image and Y its associated ground-truth class,
as in our use case. For a new observation Xn+1 , the goal of a conformal predictor calibrated
on the n examples is to produce a prediction set, Cˆ1−α (Xn+1 ) ⊆ Y, satisfying the following
marginal coverage property:

                                        P Yn+1 ∈ Cˆ1−α (Xn+1 ) ≥ 1 − α                              (1)
                                                              

This guarantee means that on average over all observations, the predicted set of Y values for
a new observation will contain the true value (1 − α) × 100% of the times. It thus allows the
user to control the error rate of the predictive system and to associate formal guarantees to
its predictions, which is not the case for most of the ordinarily used point predictors without
conformal calibration, including neural networks. This guarantee is valid under the relatively
weak assumption of the exchangeability of the data [1, 73].
    As a general framework, conformal prediction has been adapted to a large spectrum of
learning tasks (classification, regression, segmentation, etc.), predictive models (SVM, decision
trees, neural networks, etc.), and data configurations (offline vs. online learning) [21, 4]. While
each application of conformal prediction may have its specificity, all conformal approaches share
the same general requisites:

    • The user’s tolerance to error, α. This fixed parameter, to be chosen by the user before
      the start of the conformal procedure is what defines the significance level 1 − α at which
      the coverage guarantee is to be maintained. Based on this level, the conformal pipeline


                                                  3
        will then ensure that the ground-truth label is included no less than (1 − α) × 100 % of
        the times in the predicted sets as per Equation 1. This parameter is usually defined based
        on the use case’s requirements.
  • The base predictor, hereby noted as B, which can be any black-box point predictor on
    which to apply the conformal procedure. In this article, we work exclusively with neural
    network classifiers.
  • Following the split-conformal procedure [51] (see Section 2.1.3) requires three distinct
    non-overlapping datasets. Namely, a first training set of ntrain observations on which B
    is trained. The conformal calibration procedure, which will transform B into a conformal
    set predictor requires a separate set of ncal calibration observations, and, finally, a set of
    ntest observations on which to evaluate the performance.
  • Perhaps the most important component, the nonconformity score ∆, can be understood
    as a “distance” that measures how similar – or conforming – a new observation Xn+1
    is to the previously seen data. Different scores have previously been introduced in the
    literature and will be discussed in detail in the next section.

2.1.2     Nonconformity Score Functions
Before we review the different nonconformity scores for classification, it is important to define
some mathematical notations required for the rest of the article.
    As mentioned previously, we assume that we observe a random vector x ∈ X of features,
called an object. Each object is assigned a ground-truth class label y ∈ Y := {1, ..., K} by the
annotators. The couple (X, Y ) ∈ X × Y is often called an example. The classifier B can be
any function that predicts a class B(x) = ŷ ∈ Y for an input x ∈ X after it has been trained
on ntrain examples. We also assume  PK that B also produces some sort of associated estimated
probability p̂ŷ ∈ [0, 1], such that k=1 p̂k = 1. The neural network classifier used in this study
is a typical example of such a setup, since for each class we can associate its corresponding
softmax output which can be interpreted as a heuristic estimation of probability [26].
    The nonconformity score ∆(z) : X × Y → R is a real-valued function that associates to
each example a measure of “strangeness” with respect to the previously seen examples. It is a
crucial component of both the conformal calibration and conformal prediction procedures, and,
in a certain sense, is what distinguishes one conformal predictor from another. Here, we will
cover some of the nonconformity scores that are especially suitable for the task of classification
using neural networks [31, 5, 44]. To simplify the notation, we write the nonconformity score
as a function of the label y since the object x is implicitly included in the output of the base
classifier.

  • Hinge Loss (IP) [31]. A very “natural” score of nonconformity is the Inverse Probability,
    i.e. Hinge Loss:
                                     ∆IP (y) = 1 − p̂y .                                 (2)
        While very intuitive and easy to compute, this score has a major deficiency in that it is
        blind to the estimated probabilities of other classes than the class of interest.
  • Margin Score (MS) [31]. The Margin Score measures how different the estimated
    probability of the class of interest y from is the highest estimated probability among the
    other classes:
                                      ∆MS (y) = max p̂k − p̂y .                            (3)
                                                      k̸=y

        This score assumes that when class y has a large margin away from the class with the
        highest estimated probability, it should be considered “nonconformal”. Such a hypothesis
        is implicitly based on the idea that the true class should often be the one with the highest
        probability.



                                                  4
  • Adaptive Prediction Sets (APS) [60, 5]. The APS conformal method has been intro-
    duced with the aim of predicting sets whose size is adaptive to the perceived difficulty of
    the input object by the base classifier. Unlike the two previously described scores, APS
    does actually take into consideration the estimated probabilities of all the classes deemed
    “more probable” than the class of interest y, following this definition:
                                                  R(y)−1
                                                   X
                                     ∆APS (y) =            p̂[r] + u · p̂[R(y)] ,                   (4)
                                                   r=1

        where R(k) is the rank of class k after the classes have been sorted by decreasing order of
        estimated probabilities, p̂[r] is the probability estimate of the class having rank r, such that
        p̂k = p̂[R(k)] , and u is a random value sampled uniformly in (0, 1) for breaking potential
        ties [5].

  • Penalized Inverse Probability (PIP) [44]. Our recently proposed nonconformity
    score introduces a penalization term to the classical IP score. This penalization takes into
    consideration the classes having higher estimated probabilities than the class of interest:
                                                         R(y)−1
                                                           X p̂[r]
                                 ∆PIP (y) = 1 − p̂y +              1{R(y)>1} ,                      (5)
                                                           r=1
                                                               r

        where the penalization is only added when y is the not the most probable class, where in
        such cases the score is simply the Hinge Loss (IP). This score has been introduced with
        the aim of minimizing the average size of the predicted sets while maximizing the number
        of singletons, which is a non-trivial optimization problem that is not fulfilled by the other
        nonconformity scores.

   A detailed discussion of the attributes and behavior of these different nonconformity scores
under different conditions can be found in our previous work [44]. In this article, these different
scores will be tested in our experimental procedure with the aim of choosing the most suitable
one for the precision spraying pipeline.

2.1.3     Split-Conformal Procedure
The split-conformal approach is a simple and efficient procedure to conduct conformal prediction
in an offline setting [51]. It consists of two main steps: (1) conformal calibration, and (2)
conformal prediction (Algorithm 1).
    As described in Section 2.1.1, this procedure requires three distinct non-overlapping datasets.
The training set is used for training the base model B. After the training phase, the base
model does not change anymore. That is, the intrinsic parameters that have been learned are
not modified by the additional conformal component added to the predictive pipeline. The
calibration dataset, is used for the conformal calibration step that will be shortly described,
and the test set is used for testing the conformal model.
    The conformal calibration step is essentially the step that transforms B which produces
point predictions into a set predictor (Figure 1). For each example zi = (xi , yi ), i = 1, ..., ncal
in the calibration set, we compute the nonconformity score of the true class yi . We thus obtain
the set of “true” nonconformity scores on the calibration set: {∆(yi ), i = 1, ..., ncal }. We then
estimate the 1 − α quantile value of these scores, qcal , where α is the chosen level of tolerance
to error. This quantile value is the main output of the conformal calibration procedure and will
be used at the prediction phase.
    Indeed, qcal , being the 1 − α quantile, is the value after which the α most “extreme” non-
conformity scores lie. The examples that lie after qcal are the 10% examples with highest
nonconformity scores. That is, the most “nonconforming” observations.
    Following this reasoning, it becomes easier to understand how conformal prediction works.
It can be seen as a form of hypothesis test whereby we test how “conforming” a certain class is


                                                    5
 Algorithm 1: Split-Conformal Procedure
     Input: calibration set {zi = (xi , yi ), i = 1, ..., ncal }
            test set {zi = (xj , yj ), j = 1, ..., ntest }
            error tolerance α ∈ (0, 1)
            trained base model B
            nonconformity score function ∆( )
            number of classesnK
     Output: prediction sets Cˆ1−α (xj ), j = 1, ..., ntest
                                                                o


 1 Train base model B on training set ;
   Conformal Calibration
 2 for i ← 1 to ncal do
 3    Predict using trained model: B(xi );
 4    Use prediction to compute nonconformity score of true class: ∆(yi );
 5 Estimate qcal , the 1 − α quantile of {∆(yi ), i = 1, ..., ncal };
   Conformal Prediction
 6 for j ← 1 to ntest do
 7    Predict using trained model: B(xj );
 8    Cˆ1−α (xj ) ← { };
 9    for k ← 1 to K do
10        Compute nonconformity score of considered class: ∆(k)j ;
11        if ∆(k)j ≤ qcal then
12            Cˆ1−α (xj ) ← Cˆ1−α (xj ) ∪ k




relatively to the calibration data. Indeed, for a given new input xj , j ∈ [1, ntest ] from the test
set, we compute the probability estimates p̂kj for each class k = 1, ..., K by passing the input in
the base model. For each class, we compute its nonconformity score ∆(k)j and compare it with
the calibration quantile qcal . If the ∆(k)j lies in the rejection region, it is deemed too extreme
with regards to the previously seen data. Class k is therefore considered highly unlikely to be
the true class, and is thus excluded. Otherwise, k is considered plausible enough to be the
true class and is therefore included in the prediction set. It is important to note that in the
predicted sets, the classes included are sorted in increasing order of nonconformity scores.
    Following this procedure, under the crucial hypothesis that the calibration and test data
come from the same – or at least similar – population, provably leads to conformal sets that
satisfy the desired marginal coverage property defined in Equation 1. We can thus guarantee
that the true class is covered by our prediction sets at least (1 − α) × 100% of the times [51, 73].

2.1.4     Class-Conditional Procedure
The split-conformal procedure provides only a marginal guarantee on the coverage of the true
class. This means that, on average over all examples, the coverage is guaranteed at 1 − α.
However, this does not mean that the coverage is maintained for any arbitrary example (x, y),
a guarantee proven to be impossible to achieve with a conformal predictor with bounded av-
erage set size [22]. Furthermore, the marginal coverage condition does not guarantee that the
coverage is maintained at 1 − α for each possible sub-group of the examples. In particular, the
coverage may not be guaranteed for each class [9]. This can have dire consequences in sensitive
applications where the coverage has to be maintained equally for all classes or on a particular
class of interest. For example, in the current use case of precision weeding, it is much more
important to provide valid guarantees on class weed which we aim to eradicate than on the
other background or crop classes.




                                                      6
   Formally, we would like to achieve the class-conditional coverage guarantee:

                    P Yn+1 ∈ Cˆ1−α (Xn+1 )|Yn+1 = y ≥ 1 − α ∀y ∈ Y                             (6)
                                                      

which can be satisfied by iteratively applying the conformal calibration procedure separately
on the examples belonging to each class in the calibration set. That is, for each y ∈ Y,
we conduct conformal calibration on the examples (Xi , y), i = 1, ..., ncal to obtain a class-
                       (y)
conditional quantile qcal for each class. At prediction time, the nonconformity score of each class
                                              (y)
y is tested against its respective quantile qcal to decide whether to include y in the prediction
set or not. This procedure provably guarantees the class-conditional coverage [71, 9, 4].

2.2    Base Classifier
As mentioned previously, conformal prediction is an added layer on top of a base classifier B.
As conformal prediction is a model-agnostic approach, any classifier that produces some form
of probability estimate for each class is a good candidate for becoming a conformal predictor,
even if it does not manifest high classification performance [60]. As such, a classical ResNet-50
[28] classifier is considered in this study, although more recent and performing models can be
used [62].

2.3    Decision Rules on Conformal Sets
The prediction sets allow us to provide reliable guarantees on the performance of the predictive
model. However, when integrated in a pipeline where a final decision or action should be taken,
it is important to define the decision functions that map the prediction sets into decisions
[66, 36].




Figure 2: Schematic representations of the three spraying decision functions considered in our
spraying pipeline. The decision taken in each example is shown in bold. (a) Weed in set, (b)
Weed top-1, (c) Weed singleton. Classes are ranked by decreasing order of p̂k , corn in green is
the true class label.

   The precision spraying pipeline that we develop has to output a final binary spray / no
spray decision. As such, we define three possible binary in top of the predicted sets. All of
these functions rely on the existence of class weed in the obtained sets (Figure 2).

 (a) Weed in set: The first decision function leads to a spray decision for a certain input,
     whenever the class weed is included in the predicted set. This can be considered as the
     simplest and most lenient decision function and therefore may potentially lead to spraying
     in unneeded locations. For example, in Figure 2(a), a spraying decision is taken, even
     though the true class label is corn, simply because weed has also been predicted as a
     plausible class.
 (b) Weed top-1: As mentioned previously, the predicted classes are sorted in decreasing order
     of nonconformity scores in the sets, from the class considered the most “conforming”,


                                                7
      to the least plausible class. Accordingly, we can define a decision function where spray
      is decided only when class weed is the first predicted class (Figure 2(b)). This decision
      function is more stringent than the previous one in that it only sprays when weed is the
      most plausible class.

 (c) Weed singleton: When a singleton is predicted, it means that the one class predicted has
     been considered overwhelmingly more conforming than the other classes: the base model
     manifests very high certainty about the class it predicts. The strictest decision function
     is thus the one where the model chooses to spray when weed is the only predicted class
     (Figure 2(c)).

2.4    Evaluation Metrics
There are three levels of evaluation in the precision spraying pipeline considered in this work.
The first level consists of evaluating the base model on the multiclass classification task after
training it. For this, we use standard classification metrics such as precision, recall, and their
harmonic mean, the f1-score [25]. This is not the level of evaluation that interests us since the
rest of the conformal pipeline provides guaranteed coverage regardless of the performance of
the base model [31].

Evaluating the conformal predictor The second level evaluates the performance of the
conformal predictor. In order to verify that the coverage guarantee defined in Equation 1
is maintained, we can compute the empirical marginal coverage, which is simply the average
number of times the true class has been covered by the predicted set:
                                                              n
                                                      1       X test

                         Empirical Coverage =                          1{yi ∈C1−α (xi )}       (7)
                                                  ntest i=1

where 1{·} is the indicator function. This value should be around the 1 − α level of coverage.
    While all conformal predictors are valid by construction, they are not all equally “useful” [6,
66]. Indeed, the usefulness of a set predictor can be measured using two metrics introduced in
the literature [72, 31].

  • The efficiency is simply defined as the average size of the predicted sets:
                                                              n
                                                      1       X test

                                   Efficiency =                        |C1−α (xi )|            (8)
                                                  ntest i=1

      where | · | is the set cardinality, the number of classes in the predicted set. Clearly,
      smaller sets are preferred since they are easier to interpret and to construct decision rules
      on.
  • The informativeness computes the ratio of singleton predictions:
                                                                n
                                                          1     X test

                             Informativenesss =                          1{|C1−α (xi )|=1}     (9)
                                                      ntest i=1

      Singleton predictions are the most efficient and the easiest to interpret. Therefore, a con-
      formal predictor that predicts more singletons without violating the coverage guarantee
      is preferred.

  A conformal model that jointly optimizes these two criteria can be readily used in a decision-
making pipeline as the one proposed in the current work.

Evaluating the spraying decision The third level of evaluation is that of the spraying
decisions: are we taking the right spraying decision when weeds are detected? To estimate the


                                                  8
spraying quality, we rely on two main important assumptions related to the data (cf. Section
3.1). Namely, that each image is well-aligned with a spraying head and that it represents
one unit of spraying surface. We also consider that each crop or weed is seen only once and
that no chemical spray drift occurs [52]. In other words, each image, and in consequence
each spraying decision, is associated to one plant. While these assumptions may be considered
simplifying ones, they are crucial to allow a reliable estimation of sprayed ratio in an a posteriori
experimental setup where a physical inspection of the land is not possible. We argue that given
the large amount of data available, such an estimation can provide a reliable evaluation of the
spraying performance of a given pipeline.
    As such, the evaluation at this level consists of comparing the sprayed ratio, estimated by
the number of spraying decisions over the number of all images in the considered sample. The
sprayed ratio can be formally defined as:
                                                       n
                                                   1   Xtest

                              Sprayed Ratio =                  1{“spray”} .                      (10)
                                                 ntest i=1

This ratio can be compared to the infestation level, estimated as the number of images annotated
as weed over the number of images in the considered sample:
                                                         nweed
                                  Infestation Level =          .                            (11)
                                                         ntest
Here, ntest is the number of images in the studied sample. In addition, two other metrics
of interest can be inferred from these quantities. The spray reduction level with respect to
broadcast spraying (where the whole parcel surface is sprayed) which can be computed as
                              Spray Reduction = 1 − Sprayed Ratio,                               (12)
is a metric that can be of particular interest to end-users (the farmers) since it is directly related
to the reduction of production costs. This reduction may be offset by the spray surplus, which is
the unneeded amount sprayed, estimated as the excess of spraying decisions taken with respect
to the infestation level:
                       Spray Surplus = Sprayed Ratio − Infestation Level                         (13)
This quantity can be negative when not enough spraying decisions were taken, indicating clearly
that some weeds have been missed.


3     Experimental Procedures & Results
3.1    Precision Spraying Image Dataset
To empirically study the conformal prediction-based spraying pipeline, we constructed a large
dataset of 510,600 RGB images of dimensions 224 × 224 where each image is associated to a
potential spraying location. That is, an image is assumed to be well-aligned with a spraying
head and represents a spraying surface.
    Working in the context of non-selective precision weeding, where the weed species need not
be identified, each image is carefully annotated by agronomists who associate to it one ground-
truth class among six possible classes: the four studied crops – corn, rapeseed, sugar beet and
sunflower –, weed whenever a weed or undesired plant is found (even if another crop is apparent
in the image), and finally background when no plant appears in the image.
    Data have been collected in 21 “farms” across France and other European countries, mani-
festing a large diversity of visual and semantic differences, as shown in Figure 3. The collection
procedure was conducted in two stages, hence the distinction between the “old” and “new”
databases (Figure 3), an information that will be exploited in the experimental procedure.
    All farms are infested with weeds of different types and so exhibit at least three classes:
weed, background and one or many crop classes. Indeed, some farms contain multiple plots
where different crops are cultivated. Only one of the farms, Farm 20, contains all six classes.


                                                  9
Figure 3: Example images and their ground-truth classes showing the diversity of conditions
across some farms in Europe.


3.2     Experiment 1: Typical Lab Conditions
3.2.1   Setup
The first experiment aims at showing the conformal prediction procedure in action under typical
“lab” conditions. Indeed, the validity of the conformal approach relies on the fundamental
hypothesis that the test distribution is the same, or at least similar, to the distribution of the
calibration set [73]. This hypothesis may not always be satisfied in real-world deployment due
to naturally occurring distribution shifts from changes in the visual characteristics of images,
in the environmental conditions, or the semantics of the objects of interest [23, 57, 8].
    In order to guarantee the satisfaction of this hypothesis, we consider in this experiment
the old database exclusively, and rely on repeated random subsampling of the data, which on
average would reflect the distribution of the original database [39].
    The experimental procedure is detailed in Figure 4. The old database is first randomly
split into three sets: the training (50%), the validation (20%) and the calibration/test (30%)
sets. The training and the validation sets are used to finetune the ResNet-50 neural network
pretrained on ImageNet [35] for the task of image classification into weed, background and
crop species classes. After the training phase, the base classifier is fixed and does not undergo
any changes. The calibration/test set is then randomly split into the respective calibration
set (45%) used for the conformal calibration procedure, and the test set (55%) on which the
conformal predictor is tested. The conformal procedure is repeated on 100 different splits of
the calibration and test data. The obtained prediction sets are then analyzed in terms of
empirical coverage, efficiency and informativeness (defined in Section 2.4) and then in terms of
spraying performance after applying the decision rules on the sets as described in Section 2.3.
This procedure is then repeated for each of the nonconformity score functions introduced in
Section 2.1.2 with the aim of choosing the optimal score for this use case. The repetition of the
conformal procedure across random data splits and nonconformity scores allows us to study the
stability of the procedure with regards to the data and the choice of the score function.




                                               10
Figure 4: Diagram summarizing the Experiment 1 procedure. Only the “old” database is
considered with the aim of showing the behavior of the conformal procedure when the calibration
and training sets originate from the same population.


3.2.2   Results
We take a first look at the classification results of the ResNet-50 models after training (Table
1). The model has good overall performance across all the classes thanks to the controlled
environment in which the experiment is conducted where the training and test data are subsets
of the same database. The classifier manifests good recall on our class of interest, weed, but is
not close to the coverage level that we would like to have at 90%, thus showing the incapacity
of a coverage control using classical point prediction models.

                           Class      Recall    Precision     F1-Score
                        background     0.94       0.85          0.90
                            corn       0.82       0.91          0.86
                          rapeseed     0.85       0.78          0.81
                         sugar beet    0.82       0.91          0.87
                         sunflower     0.78       0.91          0.84
                           weed        0.82       0.74          0.78

Table 1: Class-specific classification results of the ResNet-50 after finetuning on the training
set. The results are computed on the full calib/test set. The required 1 − α = 0.90 coverage
level is not guaranteed for any of the classes using point classification.

   After “conformalizing” the base model following the group-conditional calibration procedure,
the model is now able to guarantee the coverage on all classes, including class weed, as can
be seen in Figure 5a. Indeed, as the calibration/prediction procedure is repeated across 100


                                               11
different subsets coming from the same population, it is not surprising to observe little variability
around the 1−α coverage level over the different repetitions. However, even though the coverage
is guaranteed using any of the nonconformity scores, the IP and PIP scores manifest significantly
better performance in terms of efficiency with an average set between 1 and 2 classes (Figure
5b) and informativeness with around 80% of predicted sets being singletons (Figure 5c). In
comparison, APS has a significantly lower number of singletons and greater average set size while
MS exhibits highly unstable performance and unsatisfactory results. The difference between
IP and PIP is not significant in this experimental setup since the base model’s performance on
weed is already not “too bad” (Table 1), which means that PIP will often behave like IP.




  (a)                                             (b)                                            (c)

Figure 5: Conformal evaluation results on class weed for the different nonconformity scores over
100 different data splits. (a) Empirical coverage, (b) Efficiency (mean set size), (c) Informative-
ness (proportion of singletons). While the coverage is maintained on average using all scores,
IP and PIP scores are the best in terms of efficiency and informativeness.


 Infestation Level                                       0.29 (±0.002)
                         Recall         Precision       Sprayed Ratio Spray Reduction   Spray Surplus
     Weed in Set      0.90 (±0.003)   0.63 (±0.004)     0.40 (±0.004)       0.60            0.11
     Weed Top-1       0.76 (±0.004)   0.75 (±0.004)     0.32 (±0.002)       0.68            0.04
   Weed Singleton     0.70 (±0.004)   0.83 (±0.004)     0.25 (±0.003)       0.76            -0.04

Table 2: Average spraying results over the 100 repetitions using the PIP score for the three
decision rules (standard deviation between parenthesis).

    Table 2 shows the results after applying the spraying decision rules. Here we evaluate the
decision rules from the perspective of a classical binary decision problem using the recall and
precision and then via the metrics that reflect the end-user’s needs. The Weed in Set decision
rule is a direct application of the class-conditional conformal prediction set on class weed and
therefore is the only one that guarantees the coverage (recall) at the required level of 90%.
The two other decision rules are far from capturing 90% of the weeds even though they have
significantly higher precision than Weed in Set: around 83% for Weed Singleton and 75% for
Weed Top-1. This is not surprising since these two functions are more strict than Weed in Set
and so will tend to be more precise to the detriment of the recall. Looking at the surface-level
metrics, we can see that all decision rules lead to a highly significant reduction in spraying in
comparison to broadcast spraying (from 60% to 75.5% reduction). Being the least precise, the
Weed in Set decision rule has the highest spraying surplus: following this rule will lead to a
spray decision whenever is the model is suspicious about the existence of a weed. As such, it
will sometimes lead to spraying when it is not needed. Weed Singleton, on the other hand, is
a demanding decision rule and so leads to a spraying shortage while covering only 70% (recall)


                                                 12
of the weeds. Weed Top-1 achieves a nice balance between these two decision rules but still
misses 24% of the weeds.

3.3     Experiment 2: Real-World Scenario
3.3.1   Setup
This second experimental setup is more closely aligned with a typical real-world scenario. The
aim of this experiment is to simulate a common use case whereby, after acquiring an original
database used for the training of the neural network, we now seek to deploy it on a newly
observed farm – for example, a new client in a commercial context. It has often been noted in
machine learning literature that while neural networks may exhibit high performance “in the
lab”, they quite often fail when deployed under real-world conditions that may not closely reflect
the original training conditions [65, 14, 29, 49]. One potential solution to mitigate this downside
is to re-train or finetune the neural network on data from the new domain. For example, when
deploying the precision weeding pipeline for a new client, we could acquire new images from the
new farms, annotate them, and use them to finetune the model. However, such an approach
would require the acquisition of a large amount of new data, which may not always be possible,
and the re-training of the neural network which is a relatively long and costly procedure.




Figure 6: Diagram showing Experiment 2 procedure. This experimental setup more closely
simulates a real-world scenario where a new set of “farms” is observed and for which we would
like to guarantee the results without re-training the model.

   In this experiment, we demonstrate the utility of using conformal predictors in such a sce-
nario. Having a well-trained and calibrated neural network on the old database, we empirically
show how the model can be readily deployed on new farms without violating the coverage
guarantee on the class of interest, weed. The details of the experimental procedure are shown
in Figure 6. Starting with the old database, we conduct the same random data split as in
Experiment 1 (with the same fixed seed) and conduct the training of the ResNet-50 neural


                                                13
network following the same procedure as the previous experiment. In other words, we use the
exact same neural network as previously. The third dataset obtained from the random split is
used to calibrate the base model following the class-conditional calibration procedure (Section
2.1.4). For each farm in the new database (Figure 3), we conduct class-conditional conformal
prediction. The obtained prediction sets are evaluated using the conformal prediction metrics,
and the spraying metrics after applying the decision rules.

3.3.2   Results
Table 3 shows the class-specific classification metrics. There is a clear variability in the model’s
performance across the different classes, which is probably due to class imbalance in the training
data: some classes are significantly more present than others since they can be found in multiple
farms. The model is overall less performant than in the previous experiment, indicating that
the test population (the new database) does not originate from exactly the same population as
the old database on which the model was trained.

                            Class      Recall     Precision     F1-Score
                         background     0.85        0.83          0.84
                             corn       0.66        0.70          0.68
                           rapeseed     0.45        0.76          0.57
                          sugar beet    0.72        0.88          0.79
                          sunflower     0.51        0.68          0.58
                            weed        0.82        0.63          0.71

Table 3: Class-specific classification results of the ResNet-50 after finetuning on the training
set (from the old database). The results are computed on the full new database.

    For the conformal procedure, we use the PIP nonconformity score which has shown optimal
results in Experiment 1. Looking at the obtained results on class weed (Table 4), we can
see that the coverage guarantee is maintained for most of the farms. For some farms, such
as Farm 20 and Farm 23, the coverage is far from the required 90% level. This is due to
difficulties that these farms present to the model through visual or semantic differences with
the calibration data. The model’s efficiency and informativeness are very good across the farms
and present little variability with prediction sets having an average size of 1 to 2 classes and
around 80% of prediction sets being singletons. In some cases, such as Farm 7, the model
presents exceptionally good performance. The coverage is maintained exactly at the required
level, with very low average set size and 90% of predicted sets being weed singletons. This is
probably due to the fact that the images obtained in this farm show clearly the distinction
between the weeds and the cultivated crops, with a nice contrast between the plants and the
ground, as can be seen in Figure 3. Under such conditions, the model does not exhibit high
uncertainty in its predictions.
    In order to study the performance of the three spraying decision rules over the different
farms, we categorize the farms by their Infestation Level. Three categories are defined: Low
corresponds to a level of infestation reaching 20% of total farm surface, Medium corresponds to
levels between 20 and 40% and High for levels of infestation superior to 40%. Figure 7 visualizes
all the spraying results for three infestation categories. Each bar corresponds to the Sprayed
Ratio induced by each of the decision rules. For each infestation category, the average level of
infestation is shown by the red dashed line. The difference between the sprayed ratio and the
red dashed line represents the average spray surplus. On the other hand, Spray Reduction can
be read by comparing the black dashed line – representing broadcast spraying that covers 100%
of the surface – with the bar plots for each decision rule.
    In line with the results of the previous experiment, Weed in Set is the one that manifests
the highest level of surplus. This is due to it being the least stringent decision rule, as stated
previously. Weed Singleton is such a constraining rule that it fails to cover all the weeds for the
farms manifesting Medium and High levels of infestation. Weed Top-1 manifests a balanced


                                                14
                     Farm             Coverage        Efficiency     Informativeness
                  (New) Farm 0           0.94            1.13              0.88
                  (New) Farm 4           0.88            1.24              0.79
                  (New) Farm 5           0.94            1.38              0.67
                  (New) Farm 7           0.90            1.11              0.90
                  (New) Farm 8           0.94            1.23              0.79
                 (New) Farm 10           0.92            1.20              0.82
                 (New) Farm 20           0.78            1.35              0.71
                 (New) Farm 21           0.94            1.19              0.83
                 (New) Farm 23           0.85            1.39              0.66
                 (New) Farm 26           0.90            1.27              0.76
                                        0.90             1.24              0.79
                      Marginal
                                       (±0.05)         (±0.10)            (±0.08)

Table 4: Conformal prediction results on class weed for each farm in the new database using
the PIP nonconformity score (standard deviation between parenthesis).


behavior in terms of Spray Surplus. However, Weed in Set remains the only decision that
formally guarantees covering the weeds at the required level, even if it over-sprays. Indeed,
the fact that the two other decision rules lead to a sprayed ratio that is not far away from
the infestation level is a purely empirical observation that cannot be formally guaranteed. In
addition, these decision rules provide no guarantee on the weed coverage. This means that even
though the spray ratio is close to the infestation level, we cannot be sure that the spraying
decisions were taken at the right locations.

     Farm        Recall   Precision   Infestation Level   Sprayed Ratio   Spray Reduction   Spray Surplus
  (New) Farm 0    0.94      0.65             0.42              0.60             0.40             0.18
  (New) Farm 4    0.88      0.73             0.36              0.43             0.57             0.07
  (New) Farm 5    0.94      0.32             0.24              0.69             0.31             0.45
  (New) Farm 7    0.90      0.43             0.22              0.46             0.54             0.24
  (New) Farm 8    0.94      0.60             0.37              0.57             0.43             0.20
 (New) Farm 10    0.92      0.62             0.27              0.39             0.61             0.13
 (New) Farm 20    0.78      0.34             0.17              0.39             0.61             0.22
 (New) Farm 21    0.94      0.36             0.12              0.30             0.70             0.18
 (New) Farm 23    0.85      0.53             0.27              0.43             0.57             0.16
 (New) Farm 26    0.90      0.71             0.46              0.58             0.42             0.12
    Marginal      0.89      0.53             0.45             0.50              0.50            0.20

         Table 5: Spraying results for each farm using the Weed in Set decision rule.

    Table 5 details the spraying metrics using the Weed in Set decision rule. The recall (coverage)
is maintained for all farms with some variability, mostly evident for the farms that have shown
inferior conformal results (Farm 20 and Farm 23 for example). The spraying precision exhibits
much higher inter-farm variability and is, on average, quite low (around 53%), which should
signal a relatively high level of spray surplus. Indeed, the average spray surplus is around 20%
of the total surface, although for some farms it is as low as 7% while for others (Farm 5, which
has the lowest precision) it is around 45%. In all cases, this spraying pipeline still demonstrates
significant reduction in spraying amount with respect to full broadcast spraying. This reduction
ranges from 31% (Farm 5 ) for the farm where the model is “struggling” the most, to up 70%
(Farm 21 ) with an average spray reduction of 50%.


4    Discussion
As deep learning-based precision spraying starts to get deployed in the real-world, it becomes
increasingly important to improve the reliability of the predictive systems that provide the
backbone of these spraying pipelines. As Darbyshire et al. [16] state in their recent article:


                                                     15
Figure 7: Bar plot of spraying results per level of infestation. Low infestation corresponds to less
than 20% of infestation, Medium to around 20 − 40% and High to more than 40% infestation.
The black dashed line represents broadcast spraying (100% of the surface is sprayed), and the
red dashed lines represent the average infestation level in each category. The Spray Surplus
and Spray Reduction can be read by comparing the bars to the red and black dashed lines,
respectively.


“improvements in the reliability and accuracy of weed recognition are crucial for the success-
ful implementation of precision targeted weed management systems.” It is important to note,
however, that the focal point of our work is not the maximization of the predictive performance
of the deep learning models, as is the case with the vast majority of recent works in the pre-
cision weeding literature [59, 27]. Rather, this article tackles a deeper, longer-term, problem
that is the development of reliable, trustworthy and certifiable predictive models. Although
the construction of larger and more comprehensive datasets and the development of new ar-
chitectures and learning techniques can play a role in improving the reliability of the systems
[59, 16, 27], they are not enough to provide valid distribution-free performance guarantees. The
current research provides a starting point for the development, improvement and integration of
such methodologies as conformal prediction in the ag-tech ecosystem, which lags behind other
domains on this front.
    Furthermore, the current work takes a broader perspective than simply focusing on the deep
learning models. It considers the full spraying pipeline in accordance with Darbyshire et al.’s
[16] recommendation that “optimizing [machine learning] approaches without considering the
systems into which they will be integrated may be short-sighted.” Indeed, the current work
evaluates the predictive pipeline at multiple levels: the standard classification, the conformal
prediction, and the spraying decision levels, while making sure that the data acquisition and
model development lifecycles resemble real-world scenarios. That is, the experimental setup
considered in this article was developed to be somewhere between the “in lab” and real-world
settings. Certain assumptions taken are rarely satisfied under real-world deployment. For
example, the object of interest (crop or weed) is often observed multiple times as the system
advances in the parcel – a fact that was not taken into consideration in our experimental
setup. In addition, chemical spray drift often occurs due to wind, which means that each image
cannot be mapped one-to-one to a spraying outcome. However, these assumptions are crucial to
permit the experimental study of the current methodology in the absence of field testing. Future
works may involve a relaxation of these assumptions and accompanied by a field evaluation of
the proposed pipeline.
    The experimental results have shown the validity of the conformal prediction approach in


                                                16
guaranteeing the coverage of weeds both in-distribution (Experiment 1), and under conditions
of “shifted” or “near” out-of-distribution [74, 45] (Experiment 2), both scenarios that naturally
occur when deploying precision weeding systems in the real-world. Without re-training and
calibrating the neural network, a conformal predictor can be deployed in a new farm and will
maintain the coverage as long as the prediction domain is not “far away” from the data on
which the model has been calibrated. Marginally over all deployment domains, the system is
guaranteed to maintain the 1 − α coverage level. While the current work presented only the
marginal and class-conditional split conformal approaches, certain extensions such as group-
conditional [4, 43] and clustered [17] conformal prediction can be used to guarantee the required
coverage for any sub-group of examples in the population as defined by auxiliary criteria (for
example, the farm or other environmental characteristics). As such, the conformal methodology
can be adapted to the context at hand.
    The versatility of the conformal approach is also due to the fact that it allows the model
to produce prediction sets, rather than simple point predictions. These predictions sets are
adaptive in the sense that their size reflects the base model’s uncertainty about the observed
example. This also offers the practitioner the ability to define any decision rule on these
prediction sets. In the current work, three basic decision rules have been studied: Weed in Set,
Weed Top-1 and Weed Singleton. While Weed in Set is the only decision rule that guarantees
the spraying coverage at 1 − α, the user is still free to choose other rules. The choice depends
on the importance given to precision, which is related to the tolerance to spray surplus, and
more generally to the user’s preference between exact weed coverage and spray reduction. This
opens the door to the deployment of systems that are more modular and adaptive to users’
requirements.


5    Conclusion
This article constitutes a first comprehensive study, to the authors’ knowledge, of the utility
of conformal prediction in precision agriculture, and particularly in precision weeding. We
have presented, in detail, the conformal prediction methodology and its main components.
Particular focus was accorded to the split-conformal algorithm that can be applied marginally
to guarantee a 1 − α coverage level on average over all observations, or on a class-conditional
basis to guarantee the coverage level for each class – and a fortiori on the class of interest
weed. This methodology is an important step towards the development of valid, trustworthy
and certifiable deep learning-based autonomous systems in agriculture that can earn the trust
of the farmers and thus increase the adoption of these technologies [15, 2].
    Conformal prediction was studied in the context of a fully automated precision spraying
pipeline based on image classification. Three spraying decision rules were defined on top of the
predicted conformal sets to lead to a final binary spray / no spray decision. This pipeline
was evaluated at three levels: (1) the level of standard classification, using common metrics
such as precision, recall and the f1-score, (2) the level of conformal classification using the
empirical coverage – which was shown to be maintained at the 1 − α level, and the efficiency
and informativeness of the prediction sets, (3) and finally at the spraying decision level.
    Two experimental procedures that reflect commonly faced scenarios were described in detail.
The first experiment demonstrates the power of the conformal approach when the prediction
domain is similar to the data seen during conformal calibration. The spraying results show
that we can guarantee covering at least 1 − α = 90% of the weeds while reducing the sprayed
quantity by 60% with respect to broadcast spraying. The second experimental setup shows how
conformal prediction allows the predictive model to maintain its weed coverage guarantee on
new farms that may not always be aligned with the previously seen data, and that, without re-
training the neural network. Such a result is especially useful for autonomous systems that will
be deployed in new, uncontrolled, and unobserved environments. It improves the robustness
and reliability of the systems while providing signals (through worse coverage, efficiency and
informativeness) when the model is not performing well.
    It is the authors’ hope that this work will motivate the ag-tech research community to start


                                               17
exploring conformal prediction, and more largely, the domain of deep learning safety, with the
aim of developing systems that can be trusted and certified.


Declarations
Acknowledgments The authors would like to thank Estelle Millet and the AgroData team
at EXXACT Robotics for the acquisition, annotation and management of the data used in this
article; and Vincent Rachet, CEO of EXXACT Robotics, for his valuable input towards the
finalization of this article.

CRediT statement Paul Melki: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Validation,
Formal Analysis, Investigation, Data Curation, Writing - Original Draft, Writing – Review &
Editing, Visualization; Lionel Bombrun: Conceptualization, Methodology, Formal Analysis,
Validation, Writing – Review & Editing, Supervision; Boubacar Diallo: Conceptualization,
Methodology, Software, Resources, Data Curation, Writing - Review & Editing, Supervision;
Jérôme Dias: Conceptualization, Methodology, Validation, Resources, Writing – Review &
Editing, Supervision, Project Administration, Funding Acquisition; Jean-Pierre Da Costa:
Conceptualization, Methodology, Formal Analysis, Validation, Writing – Review & Editing,
Supervision, Project Administration, Funding Acquisition

Funding Paul Melki’s PhD thesis is funded by the Association Nationale de Recherche et
Technologie (ANRT, France) under the CIFRE contract 2021/1200.

Conflict of interest The authors declare that they have no known competing financial in-
terests or personal relationships that could have influenced the work reported in this paper.

Data availability Due to confidentiality reasons, the data used in this study cannot be
made public at the moment, but may be released at a later stage.


References
[1] Aldous, D. J. (1985). Exchangeability and Related Topics. In Hennequin, P. L., editor, École
   d’Été de Probabilités de Saint-Flour XIII — 1983, pages 1–198, Berlin, Heidelberg. Springer Berlin
   Heidelberg.

[2] Alexander, C. S., Yarborough, M., and Smith, A. (2023). Who is responsible for ‘responsible
   AI’?: Navigating challenges to build trust in AI agriculture and food system technology. Precision
   Agriculture.

[3] Andeol, L., Fel, T., de Grancey, F., and Mossina, L. (2023). Confident Object Detection via Con-
   formal Prediction and Conformal Risk Control: An Application to Railway Signaling. In Proceedings
   of the Twelfth Symposium on Conformal and Probabilistic Prediction with Applications, pages 36–55.
   PMLR.

[4] Angelopoulos, A. N. and Bates, S. (2023). Conformal Prediction: A Gentle Introduction. Founda-
   tions and Trends in Machine Learning, 16(4):494–591.

[5] Angelopoulos, A. N., Bates, S., Malik, J., and Jordan, M. I. (2021). Uncertainty Sets for Im-
   age Classifiers Using Conformal Prediction. International Conference on Learning Representations
   (ICLR), 2021.

[6] Babbar, V., Bhatt, U., and Weller, A. (2022). On the Utility of Prediction Sets in Human-AI Teams.
   In Proceeedings of the International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI), volume 3,
   pages 2457–2463.

[7] Balasubramanian, V., Ho, S.-S., and Vovk, V. (2014). Conformal Prediction for Reliable Machine
   Learning: Theory, Adaptations and Applications. Newnes.



                                                  18
[8] Cappio Borlino, F. (2024). Addressing Distributional Shift Challenges in Computer Vision for
   Real-World Applications. PhD thesis, Politecnico di Torino, Turin, Italy.

[9] Cauchois, M., Gupta, S., and Duchi, J. C. (2021). Knowing what You Know: Valid and validated
   confidence sets in multiclass and multilabel prediction. Journal of Machine Learning Research,
   22(81):1–42.

[10] Chiranjeevi, S., Sadaati, M., Deng, Z. K., Koushik, J., Jubery, T. Z., Mueller, D., Neal, M. E. O.,
   Merchant, N., Singh, A., Singh, A. K., Sarkar, S., Singh, A., and Ganapathysubramanian, B. (2023).
   Deep learning powered real-time identification of insects using citizen science data.

[11] Chollet, F. et al. (2015). Keras. https://keras.io.

[12] Coleman, G. R. Y., Bender, A., Hu, K., Sharpe, S. M., Schumann, A. W., Wang, Z., Bagavathian-
   nan, M. V., Boyd, N. S., and Walsh, M. J. (2022). Weed detection to weed recognition: Reviewing
   50 years of research to identify constraints and opportunities for large-scale cropping systems. Weed
   Technology, 36(6):741–757.

[13] Condran, S., Bewong, M., Islam, M. Z., Maphosa, L., and Zheng, L. (2022). Machine Learning in
   Precision Agriculture: A Survey on Trends, Applications and Evaluations Over Two Decades. IEEE
   Access, 10:73786–73803.

[14] D’Amour, A., Heller, K., Moldovan, D., Adlam, B., Alipanahi, B., Beutel, A., Chen, C., Deaton, J.,
   Eisenstein, J., Hoffman, M. D., Hormozdiari, F., Houlsby, N., Hou, S., Jerfel, G., Karthikesalingam,
   A., Lucic, M., Ma, Y., McLean, C., Mincu, D., Mitani, A., Montanari, A., Nado, Z., Natarajan, V.,
   Nielson, C., Osborne, T. F., Raman, R., Ramasamy, K., Sayres, R., Schrouff, J., Seneviratne, M.,
   Sequeira, S., Suresh, H., Veitch, V., Vladymyrov, M., Wang, X., Webster, K., Yadlowsky, S., Yun,
   T., Zhai, X., and Sculley, D. (2022). Underspecification presents challenges for credibility in modern
   machine learning. The Journal of Machine Learning Research, 23(1):226:10237–226:10297.

[15] Dara, R., Hazrati Fard, S. M., and Kaur, J. (2022). Recommendations for ethical and responsible
   use of artificial intelligence in digital agriculture. Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence, 5.

[16] Darbyshire, M., Coutts, S., Bosilj, P., Sklar, E., and Parsons, S. (2024). Review of weed recognition:
   A global agriculture perspective. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 227:109499.

[17] Ding, T., Angelopoulos, A., Bates, S., Jordan, M., and Tibshirani, R. J. (2023). Class-Conditional
   Conformal Prediction with Many Classes. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
   36:64555–64576.

[18] Domingues, T., Brandão, T., and Ferreira, J. C. (2022). Machine Learning for Detection and
   Prediction of Crop Diseases and Pests: A Comprehensive Survey. Agriculture, 12(9):1350.

[19] Du, P., Polonelli, T., Magno, M., and Cheng, Z. (2022). Towards lightweight deep neural network
   for smart agriculture on embedded systems. In 2022 IEEE Sensors Applications Symposium (SAS),
   pages 1–6, Sundsvall, Sweden. IEEE Press.

[20] Farag, M., Kierdorf, J., and Roscher, R. (2023). Inductive Conformal Prediction for Harvest-
   Readiness Classification of Cauliflower Plants: A Comparative Study of Uncertainty Quantification
   Methods. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, pages
   651–659.

[21] Fontana, M., Zeni, G., and Vantini, S. (2023). Conformal prediction: A unified review of theory
   and new challenges. Bernoulli, 29(1):1–23.

[22] Foygel Barber, R., Candès, E. J., Ramdas, A., and Tibshirani, R. J. (2021). The limits of
   distribution-free conditional predictive inference. Information and Inference: A Journal of the IMA,
   10(2):455–482.

[23] Gibbs, I. and Candes, E. (2021). Adaptive Conformal Inference Under Distribution Shift. In
   Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 34, pages 1660–1672. Curran Associates,
   Inc.




                                                    19
[24] Gill, T., Gill, S. K., Saini, D. K., Chopra, Y., de Koff, J. P., and Sandhu, K. S. (2022). A
   Comprehensive Review of High Throughput Phenotyping and Machine Learning for Plant Stress
   Phenotyping. Phenomics, 2(3):156–183.

[25] Grandini, M., Bagli, E., and Visani, G. (2020).      Metrics for Multi-Class Classification: An
   Overview.

[26] Guo, C., Pleiss, G., Sun, Y., and Weinberger, K. Q. (2017). On calibration of modern neural
   networks. In Precup, D. and Teh, Y. W., editors, Proceedings of the 34th International Conference
   on Machine Learning, volume 70 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 1321–1330.
   PMLR.

[27] Hasan, A. S. M. M., Sohel, F., Diepeveen, D., Laga, H., and Jones, M. G. K. (2021). A survey of
   deep learning techniques for weed detection from images. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture,
   184:106067.

[28] He, K., Zhang, X., Ren, S., and Sun, J. (2016). Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition. In
   Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages
   770–778.

[29] Hendrycks, D., Carlini, N., Schulman, J., and Steinhardt, J. (2022). Unsolved Problems in ML
   Safety.

[30] Huang, X., Kroening, D., Ruan, W., Sharp, J., Sun, Y., Thamo, E., Wu, M., and Yi, X. (2020).
   A Survey of Safety and Trustworthiness of Deep Neural Networks: Verification, Testing, Adversarial
   Attack and Defence, and Interpretability. Computer Science Review, 37:100270.

[31] Johansson, U., Linusson, H., Löfström, T., and Boström, H. (2017). Model-Agnostic Noncon-
   formity Functions for Conformal Classification. In 2017 International Joint Conference on Neural
   Networks (IJCNN), pages 2072–2079.

[32] Kakhani, N., Alamdar, S., Kebonye, N. M., Amani, M., and Scholten, T. (2024). Uncertainty
   Quantification of Soil Organic Carbon Estimation from Remote Sensing Data with Conformal Pre-
   diction. Remote Sensing, 16(3):438.

[33] Kamilaris, A., Kartakoullis, A., and Prenafeta-Boldú, F. X. (2017). A review on the practice of
   big data analysis in agriculture. Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, 143:23–37.

[34] Kamilaris, A. and Prenafeta-Boldú, F. X. (2018). Deep learning in agriculture: A survey. Com-
   puters and Electronics in Agriculture, 147:70–90.

[35] Krizhevsky, A., Sutskever, I., and Hinton, G. E. (2012). ImageNet Classification with Deep
   Convolutional Neural Networks. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 25.
   Curran Associates, Inc.

[36] Lekeufack, J., Angelopoulos, A. N., Bajcsy, A., Jordan, M. I., and Malik, J. (2024). Conformal De-
   cision Theory: Safe Autonomous Decisions from Imperfect Predictions. In 2024 IEEE International
   Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 11668–11675.

[37] Liakos, K., Busato, P., Moshou, D., Pearson, S., and Bochtis, D. (2018). Machine Learning in
   Agriculture: A Review. Sensors, 18(8):2674.

[38] Lindemann, L., Cleaveland, M., Shim, G., and Pappas, G. J. (2023). Safe Planning in Dynamic
   Environments Using Conformal Prediction. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 8(8):5116–5123.

[39] Lohr, S. L. (2019). Sampling: Design and Analysis. CRC Press.

[40] Lu, C., Lemay, A., Chang, K., Höbel, K., and Kalpathy-Cramer, J. (2022). Fair Conformal
   Predictors for Applications in Medical Imaging. Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial
   Intelligence, 36(11):12008–12016.

[41] Luo, R., Zhao, S., Kuck, J., Ivanovic, B., Savarese, S., Schmerling, E., and Pavone, M. (2024).
   Sample-efficient safety assurances using conformal prediction. The International Journal of Robotics
   Research, 43(9):1409–1424.



                                                  20
[42] Madry, A., Makelov, A., Schmidt, L., Tsipras, D., and Vladu, A. (2018). Towards Deep Learning
   Models Resistant to Adversarial Attacks. International Conference on Learning Representations
   (ICLR).

[43] Melki, P., Bombrun, L., Diallo, B., Dias, J., and Da Costa, J.-P. (2023). Group-Conditional
   Conformal Prediction via Quantile Regression Calibration for Crop and Weed Classification. In
   Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV) Workshops,
   pages 614–623.

[44] Melki, P., Bombrun, L., Diallo, B., Dias, J., and Da Costa, J.-P. (2024). The Penalized Inverse
   Probability Measure for Conformal Classification. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
   Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) Workshops, pages 3512–3521.

[45] Mukhoti, J., Lin, T.-Y., Chen, B.-C., Shah, A., Torr, P. H. S., Dokania, P. K., and Lim, S.-N.
   (2023). Raising the Bar on the Evaluation of Out-of-Distribution Detection. In Proceedings of the
   IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, pages 4365–4375.

[46] Niculescu-Mizil, A. and Caruana, R. (2005). Predicting Good Probabilities with Supervised Learn-
   ing. In Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML ’05, pages
   625–632, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.

[47] Ovadia, Y., Fertig, E., Ren, J., Nado, Z., Sculley, D., Nowozin, S., Dillon, J., Lakshminarayanan,
   B., and Snoek, J. (2019). Can You Trust Your Model’s Uncertainty? Evaluating Predictive Un-
   certainty Under Dataset Shift. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, volume 32.
   Curran Associates, Inc.

[48] Palacios, F., Diago, M. P., Melo-Pinto, P., and Tardaguila, J. (2023). Early yield prediction in
   different grapevine varieties using computer vision and machine learning. Precision Agriculture,
   24(2):407–435.

[49] Paleyes, A., Urma, R.-G., and Lawrence, N. D. (2023). Challenges in Deploying Machine Learning:
   A Survey of Case Studies. ACM Computing Surveys, 55(6):1–29.

[50] Papadopoulos, H., Gammerman, A., and Vovk, V. (2009). Reliable diagnosis of acute abdominal
   pain with conformal prediction. Engineering Intelligent Systems, 2(3):127–137.

[51] Papadopoulos, H., Proedrou, K., Vovk, V., and Gammerman, A. (2002). Inductive Confidence
   Machines for Regression. In Elomaa, T., Mannila, H., and Toivonen, H., editors, Machine Learning:
   ECML 2002, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 345–356, Berlin, Heidelberg. Springer.

[52] Partel, V., Charan Kakarla, S., and Ampatzidis, Y. (2019). Development and evaluation of a low-
   cost and smart technology for precision weed management utilizing artificial intelligence. Computers
   and Electronics in Agriculture, 157:339–350.

[53] Paszke, A., Gross, S., Chintala, S., Chanan, G., Yang, E., DeVito, Z., Lin, Z., Desmaison, A.,
   Antiga, L., and Lerer, A. (2017). Automatic differentiation in PyTorch. NeurIPS 2017 Workshop on
   Automatic Differentiation.

[54] Pathak, H. S., Brown, P., and Best, T. (2019). A Systematic Literature Review of the Factors
   Affecting the Precision Agriculture Adoption Process. Precision Agriculture, 20(6):1292–1316.

[55] Patrizi, G., Bartolini, A., Ciani, L., Gallo, V., Sommella, P., and Carratù, M. (2022). A Virtual Soil
   Moisture Sensor for Smart Farming Using Deep Learning. IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation
   and Measurement, 71:1–11.

[56] Paudel, D., de Wit, A., Boogaard, H., Marcos, D., Osinga, S., and Athanasiadis, I. N. (2023).
   Interpretability of deep learning models for crop yield forecasting. Computers and Electronics in
   Agriculture, 206:107663.

[57] Quinonero-Candela, J., Sugiyama, M., Schwaighofer, A., and Lawrence, N. D. (2022). Dataset
   Shift in Machine Learning. MIT Press.

[58] Raghunathan, A., Xie, S. M., Yang, F., Duchi, J. C., and Liang, P. (2020). Understanding and
   Mitigating the Tradeoff between Robustness and Accuracy. In Proceedings of the 37th International
   Conference on Machine Learning, ICML’20. JMLR.org.


                                                    21
[59] Rai, N., Zhang, Y., Ram, B. G., Schumacher, L., Yellavajjala, R. K., Bajwa, S., and Sun, X.
   (2023). Applications of deep learning in precision weed management: A review. Computers and
   Electronics in Agriculture, 206:107698.

[60] Romano, Y., Sesia, M., and Candes, E. (2020). Classification with Valid and Adaptive Coverage.
   In Larochelle, H., Ranzato, M., Hadsell, R., Balcan, M. F., and Lin, H., editors, Advances in Neural
   Information Processing Systems, volume 33, pages 3581–3591. Curran Associates, Inc.

[61] Rudin, C., Chen, C., Chen, Z., Huang, H., Semenova, L., and Zhong, C. (2022). Interpretable
   machine learning: Fundamental principles and 10 grand challenges. Statistics Surveys, 16(none).

[62] Schuster, T., Fisch, A., Jaakkola, T., and Barzilay, R. (2021). Consistent Accelerated Inference
   via Confident Adaptive Transformers. In Moens, M.-F., Huang, X., Specia, L., and Yih, S. W.-t.,
   editors, Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,
   pages 4962–4979, Online and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic. Association for Computational
   Linguistics.

[63] Shafer, G. and Vovk, V. (2008). A Tutorial on Conformal Prediction. Journal of Machine Learning
   Research, 9(12):371–421.

[64] Solimani, F., Cardellicchio, A., Nitti, M., Lako, A., Dimauro, G., and Renò, V. (2023). A Sys-
   tematic Review of Effective Hardware and Software Factors Affecting High-Throughput Plant Phe-
   notyping. Information, 14(4):214.

[65] Stadelmann, T., Amirian, M., Arabaci, I., Arnold, M., Duivesteijn, G. F., Elezi, I., Geiger, M.,
   Lörwald, S., Meier, B. B., Rombach, K., and Tuggener, L. (2018). Deep Learning in the Wild. In Pan-
   cioni, L., Schwenker, F., and Trentin, E., editors, Artificial Neural Networks in Pattern Recognition,
   pages 17–38, Cham. Springer International Publishing.

[66] Straitouri, E., Wang, L., Okati, N., and Rodriguez, M. G. (2023). Improving Expert Predic-
   tions with Conformal Prediction. In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on Machine
   Learning, pages 32633–32653. PMLR.

[67] Tzachor, A., Devare, M., King, B., Avin, S., and Ó hÉigeartaigh, S. (2022). Responsible Artificial
   Intelligence in Agriculture Requires Systemic Understanding of Risks and Externalities. Nature
   Machine Intelligence, 4(2):104–109.

[68] Vega, J., Murari, A., Pereira, A., González, S., and Pastor, I. (2010). Accurate and reliable image
   classification by using conformal predictors in the TJ-II Thomson scattering). Review of Scientific
   Instruments, 81(10):10E118.

[69] Vermeulen, D. and Van Niekerk, A. (2017). Machine learning performance for predicting soil
   salinity using different combinations of geomorphometric covariates. Geoderma, 299:1–12.

[70] Vilfroy, S., Bombrun, L., Urruty, T., De Grancey, F., Lebrat, J.-P., and Carré, P. (2024). Conformal
   prediction for regression models with asymmetrically distributed errors: Application to aircraft
   navigation during landing maneuver. Machine Learning, 113(10):7841–7866.

[71] Vovk, V. (2013). Conditional Validity of Inductive Conformal Predictors. Machine Learning,
   92(2-3):349–376.

[72] Vovk, V., Fedorova, V., Nouretdinov, I., and Gammerman, A. (2016). Criteria of Efficiency for
   Conformal Prediction. In Gammerman, A., Luo, Z., Vega, J., and Vovk, V., editors, Conformal
   and Probabilistic Prediction with Applications, volume 9653, pages 23–39. Springer International
   Publishing, Cham.

[73] Vovk, V., Gammerman, A., and Shafer, G. (2005). Algorithmic Learning in a Random World.
   Springer, New York, NY.

[74] Winkens, J., Bunel, R., Roy, A. G., Stanforth, R., Natarajan, V., Ledsam, J. R., MacWilliams,
   P., Kohli, P., Karthikesalingam, A., Kohl, S., Cemgil, T., Eslami, S. M. A., and Ronneberger, O.
   (2020). Contrastive Training for Improved Out-of-Distribution Detection.




                                                   22
[75] Yu, H. (2023). Neural Networks for Real-time Plant Species Classification on Embedded MCUs.
   In Proceedings of the 2022 4th International Conference on Robotics, Intelligent Control and Arti-
   ficial Intelligence, RICAI ’22, pages 1261–1268, New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing
   Machinery.

[76] Zhang, Y., Tino, P., Leonardis, A., and Tang, K. (2021). A Survey on Neural Network Inter-
   pretability. IEEE Transactions on Emerging Topics in Computational Intelligence, 5(5):726–742.




                                                 23
