                           Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science, Volume 3(2), 2026, 234-261




                                           Journal of Intelligent Decision Making
                                                 and Information Science
                                                                www.jidmis.org
                                                                  eISSN: 3079-0875



A Hybrid Lesion Segmentation and Deep Learning Framework for
Intelligent Grape Leaf Disease Classification
Aarti Paresh Pimpalkar1*, Jayashree Rajesh Prasad2
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, School of Computing, MIT Art, Design and Technology University, Rajbaug Campus, Loni-Kalbhor,
Pune 412201, India
Email: aarti.pimpalkar@mituniversity.edu.in , jayashree.prasad@mituniversity.edu.in




 ARTICLE INFO                                         ABSTRACT

 Article history:                                     Early and accurate detection of grape leaf diseases is crucial for enhancing
 Received 24 April 2026                               productivity and precision agriculture. But the traditional deep learning
 Received in revised form 22 May 2026
 Accepted 20 June 2026
                                                      approach tends to classify a whole leaf image, and is easy to be interfered by
                                                      the background and has poor performance under real-field conditions. The
                                                      authors suggest a hybrid architecture combining improved SegNet-based
                                                      lesion segmentation and an Attention-Guided GhostNet architecture with the
                                                      proposed LGTrp feature learning strategy for classification of grape leaf
                                                      diseases (AGh-ISegN-DL). The framework first localizes regions of interest in
                                                      the image with the disease in order to block any irrelevant background
                                                      information to include in the classification process, and then extracts the
                                                      discriminative disease specific features for classification. Performance was
                                                      tested with standard grape leaf disease datasets and also tested with cross-
                                                      dataset validation with real field AgroVision data set (collected
                                                      independently). The proposed framework performed better than the
                                                      evaluated baseline models, such as the previously published Py-ICNN
                                                      framework, with an accuracy of 96.07%, sensitivity of 96.08%, a precision of
                                                      96.05%, a specificity of 99.35% and an F1-score of 96.05%. Ablation analysis
                                                      showed that the overall classification performance was improved by the
                                                      synergistic effect of combining lesion segmentation and attention-guided
                                                      feature learning. Across a new dataset of real-field images acquired
                                                      independently, with natural environmental variability and class imbalance,
                                                      the accuracy of 93.10% and the specificity of 97.60%, showed high robustness
 Keywords: Grape leaf disease classification,         and generalisation capacity in practical conditions of vineyard. The proposed
 disease lesion segmentation, GhostNet,               approach is overall efficient for grape leaf disease diagnosis with intelligence
 lightweight deep learning, agricultural              and it has strong potential use in precision agriculture and smart monitoring
 image analysis, plant disease diagnosis.             systems in the vineyard.



1. Introduction
Worldwide agriculture is a key factor in providing food security, economic development and
environmental sustainability. With the unprecedented growth of the world's population, alteration
of climate and constant demands for quality agricultural products, it has become a great need to
carry out intelligent farming to increase crop productivity and reduce crop losses [1],[2]. The advent




                                                                                                                                         234
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



of Artificial Intelligence (AI), computer vision and precision agriculture has revolutionized traditional
farming practices by facilitating advanced monitoring, disease diagnosis, yield estimation, and
resource management. Of these applications, early identification of plant diseases has become one
of the most vital fields of research as early detection allows timely intervention, minimizes crop
losses, enhances product quality and promotes sustainable agricultural production [3],[4].
Grape (Vitis vinifera L.) is one of the most economically important fruit crops worldwide and widely
grown for fresh fruit, juice, raisins and wine. Grape production, however, is very susceptible to a large
number of fungal, bacterial and viral diseases that have a negative impact on leaf physiology and
photosynthesis, fruit development and productivity of the entire vineyard [5]. Under favorable
environmental conditions, diseases like Black Rot, Esca (Black Measles), Downy Mildew, Powdery
Mildew and Isariopsis Leaf Spot frequently occur and can greatly reduce crop yield and fruit quality
if not caught in the early stages of infection [6]. Therefore, timely and precise diagnosis of grape leaf
diseases is an integral part of precision viticulture and smart farming management systems [7].
In the past, grape leaf diseases are detected by manual visual inspection by experts in the field.
Diagnosis by expert evaluation is used in many vineyards and is subjective, labor intensive and relies
heavily on the expertise of the individual evaluator. Furthermore, manual inspection becomes more
difficult if there are large cultivation areas to be monitored and diseases with similar visual symptoms
in early stages. In natural field scenarios, the difficulty of recognizing disease is compounded by the
natural lighting variations, shadows, leaf orientation, background vegetation, occlusion, and natural
noise that may affect visual interpretation [9]. These restrictions have inspired the research for an
automated disease diagnosis system that can give fast, objective and dependable predictions in
different environmental conditions [10].
In recent years, deep learning has been used to learn discriminative feature representations directly
from raw images to enhance accuracy for the plant disease diagnosis through image-based methods,
which bypasses the handcrafted feature extraction methods [11]. The Convolutional Neural
Networks (CNNs) and its variants have proven to be highly successful in the field of agricultural image
analysis due to the fact that they are able to capture complex spatial and semantic information.
VGGNet, ResNet, DenseNet, EfficientNet, MobileNet, and Vision Transformers (ViTs), and other
lightweight deep learning models, can be successfully used for plant disease recognition with
encouraging recognition results for several plant species [12],[13].
The foregoing progress has occurred despite the fact that the majority of the current studies are
based on a set of benchmark images obtained under ideal imaging conditions. Therefore, the
performance of the model can be easily affected when it is applied to natural vineyards with complex
backgrounds, illumination differences, occlusion, and various expressions of disease occurrence,
highlighting the need for more robust and generalizable disease diagnosis frameworks [14], [15].
The ability to reliably segment diseased areas of leaves before classification has made image
segmentation a promising method to enhance disease diagnosis. Excluding irrelevant background
information and highlighting lesion-specific features, segmentation allows for the extraction of more
representative features from deep learning models for disease recognition [16]. In the field of plant




                                                                                                     235
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



disease segmentation, the encoder-decoder architecture including U-Net, SegNet, DeepLabV3+, and
its improved version have shown good results. The segmentation architectures recently developed
have reported promising localization results, but the accurate localization of irregular lesion borders
under different disease conditions and natural image conditions is still difficult. Moreover, there is a
lack of integrated use of information related to a lesion in a disease when segmentation and
classification are performed separately, as is common practice [17, 18].
In response to these challenges, in this paper, a Hybrid Segmentation and Deep Learning
methodology for Intelligent Grape Leaf Disease Classification is proposed. The proposed framework
combines improved semantic segmentation with an attention enhanced deep learning-based disease
classifier to accurately detect the disease lesion locations and derive discriminative features for
accurate multiclass disease classification. The proposed approach integrates feature extraction based
on the location of lesions and attention based on classification to achieve better classification
performance, efficiency and generalization of the benchmark and field-acquired datasets.
The proposed framework is thoroughly tested with publicly available grape leaf disease datasets as
well as an independently generated field dataset collected in natural vineyard environment. Detailed
experiments are carried out on several quantitative evaluation indices, such as accuracy, precision,
recall, specificity, F1 score and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. Comparative
performance evaluation, ablation studies and cross-dataset validation are also conducted to
demonstrate the effectiveness, robustness and generalization capability of the proposed framework
when compared with recent state-of-the-art deep learning methods.
The proposed framework combines improved semantic segmentation, attention-guided feature
learning and lightweight deep learning under a single pipeline instead of the existing works that
mainly focus on lesion segmentation or disease classification. The integration capability helps to
accurately localize diseases, extract the right features, and classifies the disease correctly for both
standard and field vineyards.
The main results of this work are presented:
•       Based on the concept of "intelligent classification of grape leaf diseases", a novel hybrid
segmentation and deep learning method is proposed, which integrates semantic segmentation and
attention-guided feature learning into a joint model.
•       The aim of the semantic segmentation is to identify disease lesions accurately with reduced
complexity of background information, which is achieved by implementing the enhanced SegNet.
•       To improve the discriminative feature learning in the recognition of multiclass grape leaf
diseases, a lightweight deep learning (LWDL) classifer with attention guidance is proposed.
•       To test the robustness and generalization of the proposed framework, it is validated on
publicly available benchmark datasets and on an independently collected field-acquired grapelife
dataset.
•       A thorough assessment process is designed with cross-dataset validation, ablation studies,
and comparison analysis to assess the effectiveness and generalizability of the proposed
methodology.




                                                                                                    236
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



The main contributions of this work are summarized as follows: (1) the development of the AGh-
ISegN-DL framework integrating improved SegNet-based lesion segmentation with an Attention-
Guided GhostNet architecture for grape leaf disease classification; (2) the introduction of the LGTrp
feature learning strategy to enhance disease-specific feature representation; (3) comprehensive
performance evaluation using benchmark grape leaf disease datasets, including ablation analysis and
comparison with state-of-the-art baseline models; and (4) cross-dataset validation on the
independently collected AgroVision real-field dataset to assess the robustness and generalization
capability of the proposed framework under practical vineyard conditions.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews the related literature and
identifies the research gap. Section 3 presents the proposed hybrid segmentation and deep learning
framework, including the datasets, preprocessing strategy, and model architecture. Section 4
describes the experimental setup and performance evaluation metrics. Section 5 presents the
experimental results, ablation study, and cross-dataset validation. Finally, Section 6 concludes the
paper and outlines future research directions.
2. Related Work
The automated detection and recognition of plant diseases have undergone a dramatic change in
recent years due to the development of artificial intelligence (AI), computer vision and deep learning
techniques.The application of artificial intelligence (AI), computer vision, and deep learning
techniques has revolutionized automated plant disease diagnosis, allowing for the accurate and
efficient recognition of images. In controlled settings, the diagnosis of diseases has improved greatly
thanks to developments of convolutional neural networks, semantic segmentation, lightweight
frameworks, attention mechanisms (Transformer-based models). However, there are still problems
to address when ensuring reliable localization, computational efficiency, robustness to complex
background and generalisation to varying farm contexts. This section provides a critical review of
recent advances in the areas of deep learning for plant disease detection, classification of grape leaf
diseases, semantic segmentation and lightweight attention-based architectures. Table I summarizes
the representative studies by summarizing their methodologies, lesion localization strategies, feature
learning methods, validation datasets, major contributions and remaining limitations. This
comparative analysis will give understanding about the current research trends and will provide a
foundation to understand the research gap to be addressed by the proposed hybrid segmentation
and deep learning framework.
2.1 Deep Learning for Plant Disease Detection
Deep learning has been the preferred method for automated plant disease diagnosis, as it can learn
a hierarchical representation of features directly from leaf images, without the need to explicitly
create handcrafted features. CNNs have consistently been superior to traditional machine learning
methods for extracting intricate disease patterns from various crop species and transfer learning has
yielded results with good model performance in the absence of annotated agro-datasets. Transfer
learning, data augmentation, and ensemble learning methods have been recently emphasized to




                                                                                                   237
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



enhance the classification accuracy and mitigate overfitting in plant disease recognition systems [19–
22].
The identification of these lightweight models, such as the MobileNet, EfficientNet, GhostNet, and
the MobileViT model have drawn increased attention for research to enhance recognition accuracy
while keeping the computational load under control, which is crucial for on-the-fly deployment in
precision agriculture [23–25]. Concurrently, disease-important regions are highlighted, and irrelevant
background information is suppressed, using attention mechanisms in convolutional networks,
thereby enhancing the discrimination of features of visually similar disease classes. In addition,
transformer-based and hybrid CNN–Transformer architectures have improved the contextual
learning in the world, but they tend to be more power hungry, making them impractical for use on
resource-limited agricultural platforms [26].
There are some constraints, however, in the developments that have been made. Current methods
typically use reference datasets with images of a limited variety collected under controlled
conditions, and limited validation on field datasets collected independently. Furthermore, the
classification of disease is often carried out on the whole leaf image with no explicit location
identification, which can lead to background interference and environmental variation affecting the
feature extraction process. The above drawbacks emphasize the importance of developing intelligent
systems that can simultaneously accurately segment lesions, extract discriminative features, and
accurately classify the disease at a multiclass level for use in real agricultural settings.
2.2 Deep Learning-Based Grape Leaf Disease Classification
Investigating grape leaf disease classification has emerged as an important research topic within
precision viticulture for several reasons: the ability to reduce losses due to grape leaf disease and
enhance vineyard productivity. The release of publicly available datasets of images of grape leaves
has led to rapid advancements in the development of deep learning models for multiple disease
categories that are able to achieve high accuracy rates. Deep learning methods have been developed
to learn discriminative visual representations from leaf images automatically, which can greatly
enhance the recognition performance in various disease conditions, similar to the conventional
machine learning methods, but without the requirement of handcrafted feature extraction [27].
Due to the lack of annotated agricultural data, transfer learning has been widely used. The pre-
trained architectures like VGG16, ResNet, DenseNet, and EfficientNet have been found to give good
classification results using knowledge gained from large image repositories [28,29]. Recently,
lightweight networks such as MobileNet, GhostNet, and EfficientNet-Lite have been increasingly
investigated due to their low computational load without compromising the recognition accuracy,
allowing them to be used in mobile, UAV, and IoT agricultural applications [30,31].
Attention mechanisms and explainable artificial intelligence have been added to deep learning
models to further improve disease recognition. Channel and spatial attention modules focus on the
disease relevant regions to enhance the discrimination among the features while reducing the
background noise, while visualization techniques like Grad-CAM allow better interpretability of the
model by highlighting regions of the image that are more influential for the disease [32,33]. Local




                                                                                                  238
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



feature extraction and global contextual modeling with CNN–Transformer architectures have also
been shown to better withstand imaging conditions with challenges. The power needs, however, they
have been still a big challenge for real-time application for practical agricultural settings [34].
These improvements were effected, but most of the studies reported here have been conducted
using benchmark datasets with a specified set of imaging conditions, with comparatively few studies
conducted in the field using independent datasets. Furthermore, some classification approaches
operate directly on images of the leaves, not only on specific regions where the disease is present,
causing the approach to be sensitive to background noise and/or to environmental changes. This
limitation prompts the development of attention-guided feature learning method with accurate
lesion segmentation for comprehensive diagnosis of grape leaf diseases.
2.3 Image Segmentation for Plant Disease Analysis
In the automated plant disease diagnosis, the pixel-level detection of diseased regions (Semantic
Segmentation) is an essential step before disease classification. While image-level classification
usually includes irrelevant background information, segmentation will precisely delineate the
boundary of the lesions and will ignore irrelevant information to improve the quality of features
extracted for the disease recognition in the next stage. This is particularly important in natural
agriculture settings, where bright contrasts, shadows, occlusion and greenery in the background can
pose difficulties for classification.
The encoder–decoder architecture, including the U-Net, SegNet, PSPNet and more recent
transformer-based segmentation networks, have been proven to be efficient at the task of lesion
localization, which is able to effectively incorporate contextual and spatial information. Multi-scale
feature aggregation and transformer-based learning have also seen improvements recently to
improve lesion boundary segmentation for complex disease patterns and irregular lesion shapes.
These models, however, are usually demanding in terms of computational resources and are not
widely used in agricultural applications that demand real-time processing performance and/or
resource-limited devices [29].
Recent researches have focused on lightweight semantic segmentation frameworks, which can
achieve lightweight implementation while maintaining the accuracy of localisation [28]. While these
enable decrease in inference time and memory usage, most of them are still restricted to only lesion
localization or disease severity estimation and not full multiclass disease classification. Also,
segmentation and classification are typically separately optimized, which hinders good interaction
between lesion localization and feature learning. Benchmark databases are also mainly used for
validation, while the few studies assessing segmentation performance on field images acquired
independently from the databases indicate that the results are comparable.
In conclusion, semantic segmentation has significantly advanced the localization of lesions in the
intelligent diagnosis of plant diseases. However, there are still challenges for accurately outlining the
boundaries of irregular lesions, computational efficiency, and for the development of tightly coupled
segmentation – classification systems that yield strong performance across both benchmark and real-
world agricultural datasets.




                                                                                                     239
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



2.4 Attention-Based and Lightweight Deep Learning Models
In recent years, a number of new plant disease diagnosis methods have been proposed by integrating
attention mechanisms and lightweight deep learning architectures, resulting in high classification
accuracy with low computational complexity. Traditional convolutional neural network (CNN) has
been demonstrated to be successful in learning visual hierarchical representations however it tends
to capture redundant information from healthy tissues and complicated background. Attention
mechanisms alleviate this challenge by attentively focusing on the disease-relevant features and
ignoring the irrelevant regions, leading to enhanced feature discrimination and classification
resilience [30,31].
Channel attention, spatial attention and hybrid attention modules are adopted to reinforce the
representation of disease-related features in attention-based learning. These mechanisms allow for
the network to detect very fine physical features of the lesions and enhance recognition of lesions in
other disease classes that appear similar visually, while simultaneously improving interpretability and
reliability of the model. [31,32]
Meanwhile, lightweight architectures like MobileNet, ShuffleNet, GhostNet, EfficientNet-Lite and
MobileViT are emerging as viable options for intelligent agriculture applications. These networks
typically use efficient feature generation strategies, depthwise separable convolutions, and inverted
residual structures to significantly decrease the number of parameters, memory usage and inference
time while achieving competitive classification accuracy [23,27,33]. They are computationally
efficient and can be used in mobile devices, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), and precision
agriculture systems using the Internet of Things (IoT).
In recent years, attention mechanisms have thus been explored to integrate with lightweight
architectures to achieve better discriminative feature learning without sacrificing efficiency. These
hybrid models are effective in improving the disease recognition capabilities; however, most of the
approaches still classify the disease without explicitly using semantic segmentation to generate a
mask of the diseased area and extract features from it. Furthermore, most of the evaluation is done
on benchmark datasets and only a few on field-collected images, which are collected separately.
Thus, for reliable disease diagnosis in various real-world agricultural settings, more research is
required to develop integrated segmentation-guided, attention-enhanced lightweight frameworks.
To illustrate the latest advances in the use of deep learning for grape leaf disease diagnosis, the
representative studies are summarized in Table I to highlight their methods, lesion localization
methods, feature learning methods, validation sets, major contributions, and existing limitations. The
comparative analysis gives an insight into the existing research trends and sets the groundwork for
the identification of the research gap that will be filled by the proposed hybrid segmentation and
deep learning framework.




                                                                                                   240
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



 Table I. Comparative Analysis of Recent State-of-the-Art Deep Learning-Based Grape Leaf Disease
                                        Diagnosis Methods
  Ref      Methodolog                 Lesion                Feature      Validatio       Major             Research
   .           y                   Localization             Learning     n Dataset    Contribution        Limitation
                                     Strategy               Strategy
 [21      Deep                    Whole-                 Hierarchical    Public       Demonstrate       Background
 ]        Convolutiona            image                  convolutional   grape        d robust          interference
          l Neural                disease                feature         leaf         multiclass        and field
          Network                 classification         learning        dataset      grape leaf        robustness
          (DCNN)                  without                                             disease           were not
                                  explicit                                            classification    comprehensivel
                                  lesion                                              using deep        y investigated
                                  localization                                        CNN
                                                                                      architecture
 [22      Multimodal              Feature-               Parallel        Grape        Improved          Increased
 ]        Deep                    level fusion           activation      disease      classification    computational
          Learning                of                     functions       image        accuracy          complexity and
          Framework               multimodal             with            dataset      through           limited real-
                                  grape                  multimodal                   multimodal        time
                                  disease                feature                      data              deployment
                                  information            learning                     integration       analysis
 [23      GCS-YOLO                Real-time              Lightweight     Vineyard     Achieved          Mainly focused
 ]        (Improved               lesion                 convolutional   grape        efficient real-   on object
          YOLOv8)                 localization           feature         leaf         time disease      detection
                                  using                  extraction      dataset      detection         rather than
                                  lightweight            with                         while             multiclass
                                  object                 optimized                    maintaining       disease
                                  detection              detection                    high              classification
                                                         head                         localization
                                                                                      accuracy
 [24      Explainable             Grad-CAM-              CNN with        Public       Improved          Explainability
 ]        Deep                    based                  explainable     plant leaf   model             emphasized
          Learning                disease                feature         datasets     interpretabilit   over
          Framework               region                 representatio                y and             segmentation-
                                  visualization          n                            visualization     guided
                                                                                      of disease-       classification
                                                                                      sensitive
                                                                                      regions




                                                                                                                       241
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



 [25      GrapeNet                Disease                Lightweight     Public     Reduced          Lesion
 ]        Lightweight             classification         convolutional   grape      computationa     segmentation
          CNN                     performed              feature         leaf       l complexity     and cross-
                                  directly on            extraction      dataset    suitable for     dataset
                                  leaf images                                       resource-        validation were
                                                                                    constrained      not
                                                                                    devices          incorporated
 [26      Adaptive                Hybrid                 Metaheuristic Plant leaf   Improved         Computational
 ]        Hybrid                  semantic               -optimized    disease      segmentation     overhead
          Segmentatio             segmentatio            transfer      datasets     quality and      increases
          n with                  n before               learning                   classification   because of
          Transfer                classification                                    performance      optimization
          Learning                                                                  through          procedures
                                                                                    hybrid
                                                                                    optimization
 [27      Semantic                Pixel-level            Deep         Plant leaf    Enhanced         Validation
 ]        Segmentatio             semantic               encoder-     disease       lesion           limited across
          n-Based                 segmentatio            decoder      dataset       localization     diverse field-
          Deep                    n of infected          segmentation               prior to         acquired
          Learning                regions                network                    disease          datasets
          Framework                                                                 classification
 [28      LeafSpotNet             Disease-               Lightweight     Jasmine    Demonstrate      Evaluated on a
 ]                                specific               CNN             leaf       d efficient      single crop
                                  lesion                 architecture    disease    lightweight      species with
                                  localization                           dataset    disease          limited cross-
                                  through                                           recognition      domain
                                  deep                                              for              validation
                                  feature                                           agricultural
                                  extraction                                        applications
 [29      DeepLeaf                Optimized              Deep            Grapevin   Improved         Limited
 ]                                feature                convolutional   e leaf     automated        investigation of
                                  extraction             neural          disease    grapevine        segmentation-
                                  from whole             network with    dataset    disease          guided feature
                                  leaf images            optimized                  recognition      learning
                                                         architecture               with
                                                                                    optimized
                                                                                    deep learning
                                                                                    architecture
 [30      Cross-                  Whole-                 Ensemble      Multiple     Enhanced         Performance
 ]        Domain                  image                  deep learning plant        cross-domain     on grape-
                                  disease                with                       generalizatio    specific field




                                                                                                                      242
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



          Ensemble                classification         knowledge      disease    n and        datasets
          Learning                with                   distillation   datasets   deployment   requires further
                                  knowledge              and                       efficiency   validation
                                  distillation           quantization


As shown in Table I, the diagnosis of grape leaf disease has developed from the conventional
convolutional neural network (CNN)-based classification system to lightweight architectures,
attention-enhanced learning, semantic segmentation, explainable AI, and multimodal deep learning
frameworks. These advances have not only led to greater success in disease recognition, but better
feature representation, lesion localization, computational efficiency and model interpretability.
However, most of the current studies remain to be based on benchmark datasets collected under
ideal imaging conditions, with significantly fewer testing on independent datasets collected in the
field. Moreover, segmentation and classification are commonly performed in isolation, thus failing to
make the most of the local disease information for feature learning. The observations reveal the
importance of developing integrated systems that integrate accurate lesion segmentation with
efficient and discriminative deep learning models that can attain robust and generalizable disease
diagnosis in real agricultural settings.
2.5 Research Gap
While substantial advances have been made in diagnosing plant diseases using deep learning, there
are still some challenges that have yet to be addressed. The CNN, light-weight networks, attention
networks, semantic segmentation, and transformer-based architectures have been demonstrated to
provide huge improvements for disease classification in previous works. However, such approaches
are generally developed in isolation and are difficult to combine localization and discriminative
feature learning into one system.
Additionally, many of the current approaches make direct classification of the disease from the entire
pictures of the foliage, which is vulnerable to background noise, illumination changes and field
conditions. While semantic segmentation has been used to help localise lesions, there is limited
connection of these networks to the more efficient classification networks. Similarly, attention
mechanisms have been found to improve feature representation while their role in conjunction with
segmentation-guided learning has been under-explored for grape leaf disease diagnosis.
An additional serious drawback is the use of benchmark data which are obtained in simulated imaging
conditions. There are very few studies that validate the model performance with independent field
measurements, raising doubts about the ability of existing methods to be generalized to real
agricultural environments, and actually applied in practice.
All these restrictions highlight the necessity to develop an integrated framework that can accurately
segment the lesions, learn deep features efficiently and train the features based on the attention the
information is supposed to receive and ensure that the computation is not heavy. Based on this
research loophole, the present work presents a novel hybrid segmentation and deep learning method




                                                                                                             243
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



for intelligent grape leaf disease classification and then does a detailed comparative analysis, ablation
analysis and cross-dataset testing to verify its effectiveness and generalization capability.
Although grape leaf disease diagnosis technologies based on deep learning have demonstrated
remarkable advancement, current research still has one or multiple drawbacks, such as poor
localization performance, interference from background noise, limited discrimination of features,
lack of evaluation under field conditions, and the lack of comprehensive cross-dataset validation. This
restriction inspired the development of the proposed AGh-ISegN-DL framework that combines the
lesion-aware segmentation with the attention-guided learning of features to achieve more accurate
disease classification and to be more robust under practical vineyard conditions.
3. Materials and Methods
In this section, the proposed hybrid segmentation and deep learning framework developed to
achieve intelligent grape leaf disease classification is presented. It includes image preprocessing,
semantic segmentation enhancement, attention-guided feature learning and light-weight
classification based on deep learning in a unified framework to ensure accurate disease diagnosis.
The publicly available grape leaf image dataset is used for model development and an independent
field-acquired dataset is used for cross-dataset validation to test the generalization ability of the
proposed approach in real field conditions of a vineyard. The overall method includes the following
stages: Dataset preparation, image preprocessing, segmentation of lesions, feature extraction,
classification of disease and all the comprehensive performance analysis. The entire process of the
proposed framework is shown in Fig.1.
3.1 Overall Proposed Framework
By combining Semantic lesion Segmentation (SLS) and lightweight deep learning classification with
attention (LCW), the proposed framework is expected to accurately classify the grape leaf diseases.
In contrast to conventional methods which directly classify the diseases from whole leaf images, the
proposed framework aims at first identifying the infected areas to suppress irrelevant background
information and then extracting discriminative features for multiclass disease classification. This
sequential processing method provides good computational efficiency at the same time as improving
the representation of features, which is useful in real agricultural applications. As shown in Fig. 1, the
framework consists of six sequential steps: (i) dataset preparation, (ii) image preprocessing, (iii) lesion
segmentation with the improved SegNet architecture, (iv) feature extraction with attention
mechanism, i.e., GhostNet, (v) multiclass disease classification by a softmax layer, and (vi)
comprehensive performance evaluation based on benchmark and field-acquired datasets.
First, the images of leaves from grapes are captured from these two datasets and resized and
normalized to create a uniform representation for the input to the model. The preprocessed images
are then sent to the enhanced SegNet model for pixel-level semantic segmentation, which precisely
identifies the damaged areas and prevents the inclusion of healthy tissue and complicated
background features. The segmented lesion regions are then fed into the attention guided GhostNet
classifier, in which the attention mechanism is used to strengthen the feature responses of the




                                                                                                       244
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



disease and weaken the redundant information. Lastly, the extracted features are passed to the
classification layer to classify to the grape leaf disease category.
Model development is conducted on the joint public datasets and cross-dataset validation is
implemented only on the AgroVision GrapeLeaf Pathology Dataset, acquired in an independent
campaign under natural conditions in the vineyard. This type of evaluation can be used to assess the
classification accuracy and generalization ability for real agricultural conditions.
 The following sections provide detailed explanations about each step of the proposed framework:
   the datasets, preprocessing, enhanced SegNet-based lesion segmentation, attention-guided
          GhostNet disease classifier, and the proposed hybrid disease diagnosis pipeline.




 Fig. 1. Overall architecture of the proposed hybrid segmentation and deep learning framework for
                               intelligent grape leaf disease classification.
The proposed hybrid segmentation and deep learning approach for the intelligent classification of
grape leaf diseases is shown in Figure 1. The framework combines together lesion segmentation,
attention-guided feature learning and lightweight deep learning classification in a single pipeline
which enhances the recognition of diseases in normal and field conditions. The initial step involves
pre-processing the images of grape leaves from these combined public datasets by resizing,
converting to RGB, normalizing the images, and augmenting the data to create standardized inputs
for training the model. The preprocessed images are then segmented in a semantic level by the
upgraded SegNet network, which performs pixel-level semantic segmentation with high precision to
accurately locate the diseased regions while eliminating the background information that may exist
but is irrelevant. Attention mechanisms are then used to improve the representation of the disease-
specific features, which are fed into the multiclass classification by the Softmax layer, where the
segmented lesion regions are provided to the attention-guided GhostNet classifier. The framework
has been trained and tested with the public datasets of nine diseases, and its generalisation capability
has been tested separately with AgroVision GrapeLeaf Pathology Dataset collected in natural



                                                                                                    245
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



vineyards. Lastly, the proposed framework is comprehensively assessed by quantitative performance
metrics as well as cross-dataset validation to evaluate its effectiveness and applicability.
3.2 Datasets
Two publicly available datasets on grape leaf diseases and an independent field dataset were used
to develop the proposed framework and assess its performance. The public datasets were used for
training and testing of the model while the AgroVision GrapeLeaf Pathogen Dataset [31] was used
solely to cross-dataset validate the model's generalization ability in real vineyard environments. Table
II summarizes the datasets used in this study.
3.2.1 Public Datasets
The proposed framework was developed using the following publicly available datasets: Grape Leaf
Disease Dataset, and New Grape Leaf Disease (NGLD). The combined public datasets consist of 11,758
images across eight different categories (7 disease and 1 healthy). Using such a combination of
datasets enhances the robustness of feature learning in the presence of different acquisition settings,
as it increases disease diversity and image variability. Before modeling, duplicate images and
inconsistent annotations were discarded and all images were preprocessed with a common pipeline
for uniformity during the training. The combined data set was then divided to train and test the
model.
3.2.2 AgroVision Dataset
The presented framework was validated with other datasets other than benchmark datasets by cross-
dataset validation to assess its applicability to other datasets, using the AgroVision GrapeLeaf
Pathology Dataset [31] which was collected in the field by the authors and published by the IEEE
DataPort [32]. The dataset consists of grape leaf images taken in natural grapevine growing
conditions with mobile handheld devices, with different lighting conditions, background vegetation,
leaf orientation, occlusion, and disease levels. The AgroVision dataset had not been used when
training or optimizing the parameters of the model, contrary to the public datasets. Rather, it was
used as an independent validation set to assess the ability of the proposed framework to be robust
and generalize in practical agricultural environments.
                           Table II. Summary of datasets used in the proposed framework
                           Dataset                                No. of         Classes        Purpose
                                                                 Images
 Grape Leaf Disease Dataset                                       9,032                4 Training & Testing
 New Grape Leaf Disease (NGLD) Dataset                            2,726                4 Training & Testing
 AgroVision GrapeLeaf Pathology Dataset                             247    8 (7 Diseases + Cross-Dataset
 (IEEE Dataport) [31]                                                             Healthy) Validation
The two public datasets combined contain 11,758 annotated grape leaf images across eight different
classes for model training and evaluation, as summarized in Table II. The AgroVision GrapeLeaf
Pathogen dataset [31] on the other hand is used only as an independent field obtained dataset to



                                                                                                           246
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



evaluate the robustness and generalization ability of the trained model in natural vineyards. The
distinction between development and external validation guarantees a thorough assessment of
predictive performance and applicability, allowing researchers to make more informed decisions
about the model's suitability. In the next subsection we describe the pre-processing operations
applied to these datasets before training the models.
3.3 Image Preprocessing
All grape leaf images were first preprocessed through a common pipeline to minimize variations due
to different image acquisition conditions and maintain disease-specific visual features before lesion
segmentation. The primary purpose of the pre-processing stage is to improve the uniformity of the
image, remove unwanted noises and provide a standardized input to the proposed segmentation
framework.
In order to have a uniform input size for the entire process of learning, the initial images were resized
to 224 × 224 pixels and converted to the RGB color space. Then, a bilateral filtering was used to
reduce the imaging noise and maintain the boundaries and edge details of lesions, which are critical
for semantic segmentation. Unlike traditional smoothing filters, bilateral filtering is an edge-
preserving denoising method that takes into account both spatial proximity and the similarity in pixel
intensity, thus preserving the structural features of the diseased areas.
The bilateral filtering process is given by the equation (1),
                                              2                  2
           1            ||𝑢−𝑣||       (𝑅(𝑢)−𝑅(𝑣))
𝑄(𝑢) = 𝛺(𝑢) ∑ 𝑣∈𝛩 𝑒𝑥𝑝 (− 2𝜆2 ) 𝑒𝑥𝑝 (−             ) 𝑅(𝑣)                                            (1)
                            𝑠             2𝜆2𝑟

Where,
•          𝑅(𝑢) = original pixel intensity
•          𝑄(𝑢) = filtered pixel intensity
•          𝛺(𝑢) = normalization factor
•          λs = spatial-domain parameter
•          λr = intensity-domain parameter
Following noise suppression, pixel intensities were normalized to improve numerical stability during
network training according to
       𝑄
𝑋=                                                                                                   (2)
       𝜂
where
•          𝑄 denotes the filtered image,
•          η=255,
•          𝑋 is the normalized image supplied to the segmentation network.




                                                                                                     247
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



To improve model robustness and reduce overfitting, data augmentation was applied exclusively to
the training images using random rotation, horizontal and vertical flipping, scaling, and brightness
variation. These transformations increase sample diversity while preserving the semantic
characteristics of grape leaf diseases.
The pre-processing pipeline generates standardized and edge-preserved images that are
subsequently provided to the improved SegNet architecture for precise lesion localization.
3.4 Improved SegNet-Based Lesion Segmentation
Accurate lesion localization is not only vital for subsequent disease classification but can help to make
the classification more accurate by separating infected areas from healthy leaf tissues. In the
proposed framework, an improved SegNet architecture was used to ensure precise segmentation at
the pixel level. The segmentation process was designed to first detect the disease affected areas and
then create a binary mask of the lesions on the leaf image, before segmenting images as in
conventional image classification methods. This approach will reduce the contribution of background
tissue variations and normal tissues to the overall tissue characteristics used to accurately classify
the disease. Figure 2 shows the overall architecture of the proposed segmentation network.




                          Fig. 2. Improved SegNet-based lesion segmentation architecture.
As illustrated in Fig. 2, the proposed improved SegNet employs a symmetric encoder-decoder
architecture for precise lesion segmentation. The encoder consists of successive convolutional layers
with batch normalization, ReLU activation, and 2×2 max-pooling to extract hierarchical feature
representations while reducing spatial resolution. Unlike conventional encoder-decoder models that
rely on interpolation, the proposed architecture transfers the pooling indices from the encoder to
the corresponding decoder stages, enabling accurate spatial reconstruction during max-un pooling.
A bottleneck layer bridges the encoder and decoder by learning compact semantic representations
of diseased regions. The decoder progressively restores the feature maps to the original image
resolution, and a 1×1 convolutional segmentation head with sigmoid activation generates the
predicted lesion mask. The extracted lesion region (ROI) is subsequently forwarded to the proposed




                                                                                                     248
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



`𝛤𝑘 = 𝜌(𝛯𝑘 ⊛ 𝛤𝑘−1 +
𝜃𝑘 )                                                                                (3)
where 𝛤𝑘−1 denotes the input feature map, 𝛯𝑘 is the convolution kernel, 𝜃𝑘 is the bias vector, ⊛
denotes convolution, 𝜌(. ) represents the ReLU activation function, and 𝛤𝑘 is the extracted feature
representation.
(𝛬𝑘 , 𝛱𝑘 ) = 𝑀𝑎𝑥𝑃𝑜𝑜𝑙(𝛤𝑘 )                                                                         (4)
where 𝛬𝑘 denotes the pooled feature map and 𝛱𝑘 represents the pooling indices transferred to the
decoder.
𝛺𝑘 = 𝑀𝑎𝑥𝑈𝑛𝑝𝑜𝑜𝑙(𝛬𝑘 , 𝛱𝑘 )                                                                          (5)
where𝛺𝑘 represents the reconstructed feature map obtained after max-un pooling using the stored
pooling indices.
𝛹 = 𝜎(𝛥 ⊛ 𝛺 + 𝛽)                                                                                  (6)
where 𝛺 denotes the decoder output, 𝛥 represents the segmentation kernel, 𝛽 is the bias vector,
𝜎(. ) denotes the sigmoid activation function, and 𝛹 represents the predicted lesion mask.
The predicted lesion mask generated by the improved SegNet architecture is utilized to extract the
segmented lesion region (ROI), which serves as the input to the proposed Attention-Guided GhostNet
classifier. By accurately localizing disease-affected regions and suppressing background interference,
the segmentation stage enhances feature discrimination and improves the overall disease
classification performance of the proposed hybrid framework.
3.5 Attention-Guided GhostNet for Disease Classification
The segmented lesion regions obtained from the improved SegNet architecture are subsequently
utilized for disease classification using the proposed Attention-Guided GhostNet model. Although
lesion segmentation effectively suppresses background interference, accurate recognition of visually
similar grape leaf diseases requires a lightweight yet discriminative feature extraction network. To
overcome this, GhostNet is used as the backbone architecture because of its efficiency in
computation and the ability to provide informative feature representations through cheap linear
operations. In addition, an attention mechanism is embedded that highlights the disease-relevant
feature channels and inhibits redundant responses, thus enhancing the classification performance
while not adding too much computational complexity. Fig. 3 shows the overall architecture of the
proposed classification network.




                                                                                                  249
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261




                   Fig. 3. Architecture of the proposed Attention-Guided GhostNet classifier.
The segmented lesion region is then fed to the GhostNet backbone network, which is composed of a
series of Ghost modules, which achieve progressive feature representations by a mixture of intrinsic
feature generation and cheap linear transformations, as shown in Fig. 3. The extracted feature maps
are subsequently refined using an attention mechanism that adaptively assigns higher importance to
disease-discriminative channels while suppressing irrelevant feature responses. Global average
pooling is then employed to obtain compact feature descriptors, which are finally processed through
fully connected and Softmax layers to predict the corresponding grape leaf disease category.
The mathematical formulation of the proposed Attention-Guided GhostNet classifier is expressed
as follows.
The intrinsic feature maps generated by the Ghost module are computed as
𝛷𝑘 = 𝛿(𝛩𝑘 ⊛ 𝛧 + 𝜅𝑘 )                                                                            (7)
where 𝛧 denotes the input feature tensor, 𝛩𝑘 represents the intrinsic convolution kernel, 𝜅
denotes the bias vector, ⊛ denotes the convolution operation, 𝛿(. ) represents the ReLU activation
function, and 𝛷𝑘 is the intrinsic feature map generated by the Ghost module.
The remaining Ghost feature maps are generated using computationally inexpensive linear
operations applied to the intrinsic feature maps.
𝛶𝑗 = 𝛬𝑗(𝛷𝑘)                                                                                     (8)

where 𝛬 𝑗 (.) denotes the inexpensive linear transformation, 𝛶𝑗 represents the generated Ghost
feature maps, and 𝑗 denotes the number of Ghost feature maps.
The attention mechanism refines the extracted feature maps by assigning adaptive channel weights
according to
𝛺 = 𝛶⊙𝐴                                                                                         (9)




                                                                                                250
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



where 𝛶 denotes the Ghost feature tensor, 𝐴 represents the attention weight matrix, ⊙ denotes
element-wise multiplication, and 𝛺 is the attention-refined feature representation. The refined
features are aggregated using global average pooling before classification.
𝜒 = 𝐺𝐴𝑃(𝛺)                                                                                     (10)
where 𝐺𝐴𝑃(. ) denotes the Global Average Pooling operation and 𝜒 represents the compact feature
vector. Finally, the disease probability for each class is computed using the Softmax classifier.
 𝑃 = 𝑆𝑜𝑓𝑡𝑚𝑎𝑥(𝑊𝜒 + 𝑏)                                                                           (11)
where 𝑊 denotes the classification weight matrix, 𝑏 represents the bias vector, and 𝑃 denotes the
probability distribution over all grape leaf disease classes.
The class corresponding to the maximum Softmax probability is selected as the final disease
prediction. The proposed classifier combines the light weight Ghost feature generation with channel
attention to effectively extract discriminative disease features while maintaining low computation
complexity. The proposed hybrid framework for intelligent grape leaf disease classification is
integrated using the state-of-the-art SegNet segmentation network with the Attention-Guided
GhostNet classifier.
4. Experimental Setup and Performance Evaluation
In this section, the experimental setup, training procedure, and evaluation approach used to evaluate
the performance of the proposed hybrid segmentation and classification approach are presented.
The proposed model was trained on publicly available datasets of grape leaf diseases, and then tested
using cross-dataset validation on the AgroVision dataset to assess the robustness and generalization
ability of the model in real vineyard conditions. Standard segmentation and classification metrics
were used to evaluate the performance of the proposed framework, comparative experiments were
conducted, and ablation studies were carried out.
4.1 Experimental Setup
The suggested hybrid construction was put into practice with the TensorFlow and Keras deep learning
libraries and Python 3.11. The image processing and segmentation of lesions were accomplished with
OpenCV and NumPy, Pandas, and Scikit-learn were used for data processing, and performance was
evaluated. All the experiments were performed on an Intel Core i7 processor, 32 GB RAM, and an
NVIDIA RTX 4060 graphics card having 8 GB of graphics memory. The network was optimized with
the Adam optimizer with a starting learning rate of 0.001 and a batch size of 32. The segmentation
network and the classification network were trained with resized RGB images of the size 224 × 224
pixels. The public grape leaf disease dataset was employed to train and test the models and the
AgroVision dataset was reserved solely for cross-dataset validation to assess the ability of the
proposed framework to generalize in actual vineyard conditions.
4.2 Performance Evaluation
The performance of the proposed hybrid framework was assessed by segmentation and classification
performance measures. The quality of segmentation was measured by the Dice Similarity Coefficient




                                                                                                 251
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



(DSC) and Intersection over Union (IoU), while classification performance of diseases was measured
by Accuracy, Precision and Recall (Sensitivity), Specificity and F1 score. Furthermore, the
performance of prediction was studied class-wise using confusion matrices and Receiver Operating
Characteristic (ROC) curve. Additionally, comparative experiments were performed with state-of-the-
art deep learning models, ablation studies, and cross-dataset experiments with the AgroVision
dataset to extensively evaluate the accuracy, robustness, and the generalizing ability of the proposed
framework.
5. Results and Discussion
The proposed AGh-ISegN-DL framework was thoroughly tested to measure its efficiency in the
detection and classification of grape leaf diseases. The experimental analysis is performed by
comparing the proposed framework with the previously published Py-ICNN framework, by
conducting an ablation study to determine the influence of each component of the proposed
architecture, and by cross-dataset validation with the AgroVision dataset, to evaluate the model's
robustness in the real vineyard environment. Moreover, qualitative segmentation results and
graphical visualizations are presented to get comprehensive knowledge of the performance of
proposed framework. Overall, the experimental results confirm the effectiveness of the proposed
AGh-ISegN-DL framework in achieving better classification performance, substantiating the role of its
various components, and ensuring high generalization ability both in the benchmark and real field.
5.1 Performance Comparison with the Existing Py-ICNN Framework
To show the improvements made due to the proposed framework, its performance was tested
against the authors' earlier published Py-ICNN framework [32]. To assess the effectiveness of the
proposed AGh-ISegN-DL framework, the Py-ICNN model was used as the baseline model. Table IV
compares the proposed AGh-ISegN-DL framework with the previously published Py-ICNN framework
quantitatively, and Fig. 4 graphically shows the quantitative comparison of the corresponding
performance metrics.
  Table IV. Comparative Performance of the Previously Published Py-ICNN Framework [32] and the
                               Proposed AGh-ISegN-DL Framework
         Performance Metric                            Py-ICNN Framework   Proposed AGh-ISegN-DL
                                                              [38]              Framework
 Accuracy                                                    0.9558               0.9607
 Sensitivity                                                 0.9526               0.9608
 Specificity                                                 0.9928               0.9935
 Precision                                                   0.9524               0.9605
 False- Positive -Rate (FPR)                                 0.0072               0.0065
 F1-score                                                    0.9523               0.9605
 False –Negative- Rate (FNR)                                 0.0474               0.0392
 False- Discovery -Rate (FDR)                                0.0476               0.0395




                                                                                                   252
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



 Bookmaker Informedness                                          0.9454       0.9543
 (BM)




  Figure 4. Comparison of Classification Performance of Py-ICNN and AGh-ISegN-DL Using Standard
                                          Evaluation Metrics
The proposed AGh-ISegN-DL framework consistently yielded better performance than the previously
published Py-ICNN framework in all of the evaluation metrics as shown in Table IV and Fig. 4. The
proposed framework was able to achieve the classification accuracy of 96.07%, while the Py-ICNN
framework achieved the classification accuracy of 95.80%. Likewise, with the sensitivity, precision,
specificity, F1-score, and Bookmaker Informedness, improvements were seen whilst lower values of
FPR, FNR, and FDR signify better classification reliability. They are due to the incorporation of the
improved lesion segmentation and attention-guided feature learning, which is able to effectively
suppress the background interference while extracting the characteristics of the disease, yielding
more accurate and reliable disease classification than the previously published Py-ICNN framework.
Although the numerical improvements over the baseline are modest, the proposed AGh-ISegN-DL
framework consistently outperforms the Py-ICNN model across all evaluation metrics. This consistent
improvement demonstrates that integrating improved lesion segmentation with attention-guided
feature learning enhances feature discrimination and classification reliability rather than optimizing
a single performance metric.
5.2 Ablation Study
An ablation study was performed by varying the configuration of the proposed AGh-ISegN-DL
framework while maintaining the other experimental conditions constant to investigate the effect of
each component. Four setups were tested: (i) AGh-ISegN-DL with normal segmentation, (ii) AGh-
ISegN-DL with normal LGTrp feature extraction, (iii) AGh-ISegN-DL without segmentation, and (iv)
complete framework of the proposed AGh-ISegN-DL. The comparison of these configurations is made
in Table V and Fig. 5.




                                                                                                  253
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



     Table V. Performance comparison of different AGh-ISegN-DL configurations evaluated in the
                                         ablation study.
             Metric           Conv. Segmentation Conv. LGTrp Without Segmentation Proposed
           Accuracy                     0.931                    0.934   0.904        0.960
           Sensitivity                  0.929                    0.934   0.901        0.959
           Precision                    0.930                    0.935   0.904        0.960
           Specificity                  0.989                    0.990   0.985        0.992
           F1-score                     0.929                    0.934   0.902        0.959
           BM                           0.917                    0.923   0.886        0.952




      Fig. 5. Performance comparison of different configurations evaluated in the ablation study.
The ablation results illustrate that each part of the proposed framework contributes to overall
classification; which is visible from high classification accuracy. Replacing the improved SegNet with
conventional segmentation or substituting the proposed LGTrp feature extraction with a
conventional approach resulted in a noticeable reduction in classification performance across the
evaluated metrics. Similarly, removing the segmentation stage further degraded the model
performance due to the inclusion of irrelevant background information during feature extraction. In
contrast, the complete AGh-ISegN-DL framework achieved the highest accuracy, sensitivity,
precision, specificity, F1-score, and Bookmaker Informedness while simultaneously reducing the
False Positive Rate (FPR), False Negative Rate (FNR), and False Discovery Rate (FDR). In detail, the
classification accuracy reduced from 96.1% to 90.2% when the segmentation stage was removed,
while the proposed LRGP feature learning stage was replaced by a conventional approach the
accuracy was 93.2%. The results demonstrate the complementary nature of lesion segmentation and
attention-guided feature learning to the proposed framework, resulting in a more powerful and
reliable grape leaf disease classification than the standard feature extraction or whole-image
classification methods.
5.3 Cross-Dataset Validation




                                                                                                    254
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



To evaluate the generalization capability of the proposed AGh-ISegN-DL framework, cross-dataset
validation was performed using the AgroVision dataset, which consists of real-field grape leaf images
collected under natural environmental conditions. The AgroVision dataset has variations in
illumination, background complexity, leaf orientation, and disease severity which give a realistic idea
of the robustness of the framework when compared to the training datasets. Results of the proposed
framework are compared on the internal test data set and AgroVision data set as shown in Table VI
and Fig. 6.
                 Table VI. Cross-Dataset Validation of the Proposed AGh-ISegN-DL Framework
                                         Metric                  Internal Test   AgroVision
                                   Accuracy                         0.959          0.929
                                   Sensitivity                      0.958          0.875
                                   Precision                        0.960          0.846
                                   Specificity                      0.992          0.975
                                   F1-score                         0.959          0.844
                                   BM                               0.952          0.850




 Fig. 6. Comparison of the proposed AGh-ISegN-DL framework on the internal test dataset and the
                                      AgroVision dataset.
The cross-dataset evaluation shows that the proposed AGh-ISegN-DL framework is still capable of
high classification performance in real-field settings. Even though the classification accuracy dropped
from 96.1% to 93.1% when tested on the AgroVision dataset because the data has different
background, illumination conditions, leaf orientation, image acquisition, and disease severity, the
framework still had high specificity (97.6%) with good overall classification accuracy. The AgroVision
dataset for cross-dataset validation is a relatively small dataset of real field images collected
independently with an imbalanced class distribution, which makes this validation more challenging
than testing on large benchmark datasets with a balanced class distribution. Moreover, the NGLD
dataset used for the training and the AgroVision dataset were collected from major grape growing



                                                                                                   255
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



regions of Maharashtra state, India (Niphad dataset and Nashik district dataset, respectively) but the
field conditions and image acquisition settings were different. Although these difficulties, the
relatively low performance difference between the internal test set and the AgroVision test set
highlights the capability of the proposed framework of adapting to unseen test images acquired
under field conditions, The relatively small performance degradation confirms the robustness and
practical applicability of the proposed framework under real-field conditions. This robustness is
primarily attributed to the improved lesion segmentation, which suppresses background interference
before classification, allowing the attention-guided GhostNet classifier to focus on disease-specific
regions. Consequently, variations in illumination, shadows, and complex backgrounds have a reduced
impact on feature extraction, enabling reliable disease classification under diverse vineyard
conditions. However, larger multi-regional datasets of vineyard planted under different climatic
conditions would result in further validation of the proposed framework to verify its scalability and
generalization ability. The improved robustness is primarily attributed to the lesion segmentation
stage, which suppresses irrelevant background information before classification, allowing the
attention-guided GhostNet classifier to focus on disease-specific regions. Consequently, variations in
illumination, shadows, and complex field backgrounds have a reduced influence on feature
extraction. This contributes to the consistent performance of the proposed framework under real-
field imaging conditions.
5.4 Discussion
The results from comparative evaluation, ablation study and cross-dataset validation consistently
support the efficacy and reliability of the proposed AGh-ISegN-DL framework in grape leaf disease
classification. The proposed framework consistently outperformed the authors' previously published
Py-ICNN framework in all the evaluation metrics and confirmed that incorporation of precise lesion
segmentation and attention-guided feature learning was able to improve the disease discrimination
capability and decrease the classification errors. The improvements across the comparative
evaluations demonstrate the effectiveness of segmentation-guided feature learning over whole-
image classification for better extraction of disease-specific characteristics and better disease
discrimination and reduced classification errors. This is in line with recent work that has shown that
the use of lesion-aware feature extraction can enhance the robustness of classification, as it focuses
the learning process on the regions of the image corresponding to the disease and minimizes the
effect of irrelevant background information.
The ablation study also shows that both the attention-guided feature learning and the better lesion
segmentation bring complementary contribution to the overall classification accuracy, and the
ablation framework of the attention-guided feature learning and the better lesion segmentation
(AGh-ISegN-DL) is consistently the best classification accuracy under all tested configurations. When
the improved SegNet module, the proposed LGTrp feature extraction strategy or the lesion
segmentation stage was substituted or not included, the degradation of the performance was
observed. Conversely, the full AGh-ISegN-DL framework always obtained the best classification
results in all of the metrics used. The results show that the accurate localization of lesions and the
discriminative representation of the features are complementary and that they can contribute to a




                                                                                                  256
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



more accurate disease recognition than conventional approaches based on the representation of
features directly extracted from the images or only on image classification.
The proposed framework was further supported by cross-dataset validation using the AgroVision
dataset, to further highlight its generalisation ability in real field settings. Even though the light level
and the backdrop complexity, the alignment of the leaves and the level of disease, were different,
classification accuracy and specificity were still high, although there was a slight drop in efficiency
when compared to the internal test set. The performance difference between the proposed
framework and the benchmarked ones is not much compared to the gap between the benchmark
and the field acquired dataset, which shows the efficacy of the proposed framework to retain the
stable performance for previously unseen field images and its suitability to be deployed in real-world
agricultural applications with different variability of real-field images compared to the benchmark.
The proposed framework is an application-ready solution for disease monitoring of vines using
intelligent sensing and monitoring techniques that are able to accurately localize the region of the
vine suffering from disease, thus allowing more accurate disease diagnosis in the field. This targeted
analysis enables to efficiently extract disease-specific information from the information that could be
potentially contained in the data. Moreover, the lightweight Attention-Guided GhostNet architecture
significantly improves computational efficiency without compromising classification accuracy.
Although the lesion segmentation stage introduces a small preprocessing overhead, it effectively
suppresses background interference, enabling more discriminative feature extraction and improving
overall inference reliability. This balance between accuracy and computational efficiency makes the
proposed framework suitable for deployment on resource-constrained edge platforms, including
mobile devices, UAVs, and IoT-enabled smart agriculture systems. Future work will evaluate
inference latency, memory consumption, and energy efficiency on embedded hardware.
Although the proposed framework was developed and validated for grape leaf disease classification,
its segmentation-guided and attention-based architecture is not crop specific. The same framework
can be adapted to other crop disease datasets through transfer learning and fine-tuning using crop-
specific images, thereby extending its applicability to broader precision agriculture applications. The
development of the framework will be expanded and tested with additional crops and geographic
data collected under different environmental conditions in the future. Further, the application of
transformer-based architectures and real time field deployment strategies will be investigated to
further enhance robustness, scalability and applicability for intelligent plant disease diagnosis. The
cross-dataset validation shows potential in generalizing, but expanding the number of datasets
acquired in the field across various geographical regions would help generate more evidence of the
framework's capabilities in more general agricultural settings.
6. Conclusion and Future Work
This paper introduced a hybrid model of lesion segmentation and an Attention-Guided GhostNet
model for intelligent grape leaf disease classification.This paper proposed a new intelligent grape leaf
disease classification model based on lesion segmentation and Attention-Guided GhostNet model.
The proposed framework aimed at solving this issue by enhancing the localization of the disease and




                                                                                                        257
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



the representation of the image, while standard methods of classification relied on entire leaf images
with irrelevant background information. The proposed framework classifies the affected areas
accurately by isolating them prior to classification to extract more discriminative feature, which leads
to better disease recognition both in benchmark and real field conditions.
The experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed framework. On the
benchmark dataset, AGh-ISegN-DL achieved an accuracy of 96.07%, and a sensitivity of 96.08%, a
precision of 96.05%, a specificity of 99.35%, and an F1-score of 96.05%, and outperformed the
previously published Py-ICNN framework by the authors on all evaluation metrics. The decrease in
false positive rate (0.65%), false negative rate (3.92%) and false discovery rate (3.95%) also indicates
the proposed framework is a more accurate predictor of disease with less classification error. The
ablation study showed that the performance of the proposed LGTrp feature learning strategy is
complementary to that of the improved SegNet-based lesion segmentation module, where ablation
of one of them resulted in a lower overall performance, indicating that the combination of the two
components enhances the disease discrimination better than when used individually.
The robustness and generalization power of the proposed framework were additionally assessed by
cross-dataset assessment with AgroVision field dataset. The classification accuracy of 93.10% and
specificity of 97.60% were obtained in the presence of different illumination, background images,
leaf orientation and disease severity, and showed good generalization ability under practical
agricultural conditions. The performance degradation is relatively small compared to the benchmark
dataset, confirming that the proposed framework is able to capture disease-specific characteristics
while being immune to environmental differences between the proposed dataset and benchmark
datasets typically found in the public domain, and is therefore well generalizable, despite the
significantly higher complexity of real-world vineyard data when compared to publicly available
benchmark datasets.
The proposed AGh-ISegN-DL framework has two unique features over the conventional whole-image
classification methods and recently published lightweight deep learning models. The first is the
improvement in the segmentation module to ignore irrelevant information in the background and
allow the classifier to concentrate on the areas with the disease, thus making disease recognition
more accurate and reliable. Secondly, the lightweight Attention-Guided GhostNet architecture was
able to efficiently learn discriminative features of diseases with high precision and computational
efficiency, which makes it suitable for use on edge devices, mobile platforms, and intelligent precision
agriculture systems where both accuracy and computational cost are important.
The proposed framework yielded reasonable outcomes, but the current study only focuses on
classification of grape leaf diseases. Future work will focus on extending the structure for additional
crop species, transformer-assisted hybrid architectures for improved feature representation, and
testing the structure on larger and more diverse regionally collected fields data sets. Furthermore,
future research will investigate the integration of the proposed framework with real-time decision-
support systems, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), and Internet of Things (IoT)-enabled smart
farming platforms to facilitate large-scale automated crop health monitoring and early disease
management.



                                                                                                    258
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261



Author Contributions
Conceptualization, A.P.P. and J.R.P.; methodology, A.P.P.; software, A.P.P.; validation, A.P.P. and
J.R.P.; formal analysis, A.P.P.; investigation, A.P.P.; resources, J.R.P.; data curation, A.P.P.; writing—
original draft preparation, A.P.P.; writing—review and editing, J.R.P. and A.P.P.; visualization, A.P.P.;
supervision, J.R.P.; project administration, J.R.P.; funding acquisition, none. All authors have read and
agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Data Availability Statement
Data Availability Statement: The datasets used in this study are available from publicly accessible
sources. The AgroVision GrapeLeaf Pathology Dataset generated during this study is publicly available
through IEEE DataPort at https://dx.doi.org/10.21227/eavd-8g90. Additional datasets analyzed
during this study are available from the corresponding public repositories cited in the manuscript.
Conflicts of Interest
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or
personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. The
authors further declare that no funding organization had any role in the design of the study; in the
collection, analysis, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to
publish the results.
Acknowledgments
Acknowledgments: This research was not funded by any grant. The authors gratefully acknowledge
MIT Art, Design and Technology University, Pune, India, for providing the research facilities and
academic support required to carry out this work. The authors also acknowledge the support of grape
growers in Maharashtra, India, for facilitating field data collection used in the AgroVision dataset.
References
[1]     Zhao, J., Liu, D., & Huang, R., "A Review of Climate-Smart Agriculture: Recent Advancements, Challenges, and
        Future Directions," Sustainability, vol. 15, no. 4, Art. no. 3404, 2023. doi: 10.3390/su15043404.
[2]     Brenya, R., Zhu, J., & Sampene, A. K., "Can agriculture technology improve food security in low- and middle-income
        nations? A systematic review," Sustainable Food Technology, vol. 1, pp. 484–499, 2023, doi: 10.1039/D2FB00050D

[3]     J. R. Sykes, K. J. Denby, and D. W. Franks, "Computer vision for plant pathology: A review with examples from
        cocoa agriculture," Applications in Plant Sciences, vol. 12, no. 2, e11559, 2024. doi: 10.1002/aps3.11559.

[4]    M. Shoaib, B. S. Shah, S. El-Sappagh, A. A. Ali, A. Ullah, T. Gechev, T. Hussain, and F. Ali, "An advanced deep learning
        models-based plant disease detection: A review of recent research," Frontiers in Plant Science, vol. 14, Art.
        1158933, 2023. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2023.1158933.

[5] F. Portela, J. J. Sousa, C. Araújo-Paredes, E. Peres, R. Morais, and L. Pádua, "A systematic review on the advancements
       in remote sensing and proximity tools for grapevine disease detection," Sensors, vol. 24, no. 24, Art. no. 8172,
       2024, doi: 10.3390/s24248172.




                                                                                                                          259
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261


[6]     J. Peng, X. Wang, H. Wang, X. Li, Q. Zhang, M. Wang, and J. Yan, "Advances in understanding grapevine downy
         mildew: From pathogen infection to disease management," Molecular Plant Pathology, vol. 25, no. 1, e13401,
         2024, doi: 10.1111/mpp.13401.

[7]     I. Kunduracioglu and I. Pacal, "Advancements in deep learning for accurate classification of grape leaves and
        diagnosis of grape diseases," Journal of Plant Diseases and Protection, vol. 131, pp. 1061–1080, 2024, doi:
        10.1007/s41348-024-00896-z.

[8] H. Yang, X. Wang, Y. Zhang, X. Li, and Y. Chen, "Plant disease recognition using deep learning: Recent advances and
     future      challenges,"       Plant       Phenomics,        vol.     2024,      Art.      ID     0197,      2024.
     https://doi.org/10.34133/plantphenomics.0197

[9] A. Dolatabadian, T. X. Neik, M. F. Danilevicz, S. R. Upadhyaya, J. Batley, and D. Edwards, "Image-based crop disease
     detection using machine learning," Plant Pathology, vol. 74, no. 1, pp. 18–38, 2025, doi: 10.1111/ppa.14006.

[10] N. N. Thorat, M. D. Salunke, A. P. Pimpalkar, et al., "Transfer learning-based texture-enhanced convolutional neural
      networks over plant disease identification," Bulletin of Electrical Engineering and Informatics, vol. 15, no. 2, pp.
      1452–1462, 2026, doi: 10.11591/eei.v15i2.10510.

[11] Y. Chen, Y. Huang, Z. Zhang, Z. Wang, B. Liu, C. Liu, C. Huang, S. Dong, X. Pu, F. Wan, X. Qiao, and W. Qian, "Plant
      image recognition with deep learning: A review," Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 212, Art. no.
      108072, 2023, doi: 10.1016/j.compag.2023.108072.

[12] M. Bagga, "Image-based detection and classification of plant diseases using deep learning: State-of-the-art review,"
      Urban Agriculture & Regional Food Systems, vol. 9, no. 1, e20053, 2024, doi: 10.1002/uar2.20053.

[13] I. Pacal, I. Kunduracioglu, M. H. Alma, M. Deveci, S. Kadry, J. Nedoma, R. Martinek, et al., "A systematic review of
       deep learning techniques for plant diseases," Artificial Intelligence Review, vol. 57, Art. no. 304, 2024, doi:
       10.1007/s10462-024-10944-7.

[14] M. H. Tunio, J. P. Li, X. Zeng, A. Ahmed, S. A. Shah, H. U. Shaikh, G. A. Mallah, and I. A. Yahya, "Advancing plant
     disease classification: A robust and generalized approach with transformer-fused convolution and Wasserstein
     domain adaptation," Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 227, Art. no. 109574, 2024, doi:
     10.1016/j.compag.2024.109574.

[15] Jelali, M., "Deep learning networks-based tomato disease and pest detection: A first review of research studies
      using real field datasets," Frontiers in Plant Science, vol. 15, Art. no. 1493322, 2024, doi:
      10.3389/fpls.2024.1493322.

[16] M. Naveenkumar and S. Nandagopal, "Adaptive hybrid segmentation combined with meta heuristic optimization in
      transfer learning for plant leaf disease classification," Scientific Reports, vol. 15, Art. no. 87839, 2025.
      https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-025-87839-7
[17] R. Polly and E. A. Devi, "Semantic segmentation for plant leaf disease classification and damage detection: A deep
      learning approach," Smart Agricultural Technology, vol. 9, Art. no. 100526, 2024, doi:
      10.1016/j.atech.2024.100526.

[18] X. Luo, Y. Wang, Z. Li, H. Zhang, and J. Chen, "Plant leaf disease segmentation and classification using a multi-task
      deep learning framework," Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 225, Art. no. 109356, 2024, doi:
      10.1016/j.compag.2024.109356.

[19] M. Hasan, S. Mazumdar, and S. Momen, "Deployable deep learning for cross-domain plant leaf disease detection
     via    ensemble     learning,  knowledge    distillation, and     quantization,"   IEEE     Access,   2025.
     https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2025.3561030




                                                                                                                     260
Journal of Intelligent Decision Making and Information Science
Volume 3(2), (2026) 234-261


[20] K. Antwi, K. E. Bennin, D. K. P. Asiedu, and B. Tekinerdogan, "On the application of image augmentation for plant
      disease detection: A systematic literature review," Smart Agricultural Technology, vol. 9, Art. no. 100590, 2024,
      doi: 10.1016/j.atech.2024.100590.

[21] K. V. Prasad, H. Vaidya, C. Rajashekhar, K. S. Karekal, R. Sali, and K. S. Nisar, "Multiclass classification of diseased
      grape leaf identification using deep convolutional neural network classifier," Scientific Reports, vol. 14, Art. no.
      9002, 2024, https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-59562-x.

[22] Li, R., Liu, J., Shi, B., Zhao, H., Li, Y., Zheng, X., ... & Lv, C. (2024). High-performance grape disease detection method
      using        multimodal         data        and      parallel       activation    functions.   Plants,     13(19),   2720,
      https://doi.org/10.3390/plants13192720

[23] Hu, Q., & Zhang, Y. (2025). GCS-YOLO: A lightweight detection algorithm for grape leaf diseases based on improved
      YOLOv8. Applied Sciences, 15(7), 3910, https://doi.org/10.3390/app15073910

[24] Wei, K., Chen, B., Zhang, J., Fan, S., Wu, K., Liu, G., & Chen, D. (2022). Explainable deep learning study for leaf disease
      classification. Agronomy, 12(5), 1035, https://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy12051035

[25] Lin, J., Chen, X., Pan, R., Cao, T., Cai, J., Chen, Y., ... & Zhang, X. (2022). GrapeNet: A lightweight convolutional neural
       network model for identification of grape leaf diseases. Agriculture, 12(6), 887, doi: 10.3390/agriculture12060887.

[26] Y. Zhang, J. Liu, X. Zhao, and H. Wang, "Lightweight semantic segmentation network for accurate plant leaf disease
      identification under complex backgrounds," Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence, vol. 133, Art. no.
      108328, 2024, doi: 10.1016/j.engappai.2024.108328

[27] Polly, R., & Devi, E. A. (2024). Semantic segmentation for plant leaf disease classification and damage detection: A
      deep learning approach. Smart Agricultural Technology, 9, 100526, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.atech.2024.100526.

[28]    Shwetha, V., Bhagwat, A., & Laxmi, V. (2024). LeafSpotNet: A deep learning framework for detecting leaf spot
        disease      in     jasmine      plants.    Artificial  Intelligence    in     Agriculture,   12,      1–18,
        https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aiia.2024.02.001.

[29]    Talaat, F. M., Shams, M. Y., Gamel, S. A., & ZainEldin, H. (2025). DeepLeaf: An optimized deep learning approach
        for automated recognition of grapevine leaf diseases. Neural Computing and Applications, 1–25,
        https://doi.org/10.1007/s00521-025-10856-8.

[30]    Y. Li, X. Sun, H. Zhao, J. Wang, and L. Zhang, "Cross-domain generalization for plant disease recognition using
        domain-adaptive deep learning," Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, vol. 228, Art. no. 109735, 2025, doi:
        10.1016/j.compag.2025.109735.

[31] A. P. Pimpalkar and J. R. Prasad, AgroVision GrapeLeaf Pathology Dataset, IEEE DataPort, Jan. 2026,
      doi:10.21227/eavd-8g90.

[32] Pimpalkar, A.P. and Jagtap, A.M. (2025), Plant Disease Detection: PyramidNet-ICNN Architecture With Modified
      BIRCH Segmentation. Journal of Phytopathology, 173: e70068. https://doi.org/10.1111/jph.70068




                                                                                                                            261
