                                   Article
                                    Empirical Study of PEFT techniques for Crop Type Segmentation
                                    Mohamad Hasan Zahweh1,2 , Hasan Nasrallah2 , Mustafa Shukor 3 , Ghaleb Faour2 and Ali J. Ghandour                                   2*



                                                                              1   Lebanese University;
                                                                              2   National Center for Remote Sensing - CNRS, Lebanon;
                                                                              3   Sorbone University;
                                                                              *   Corresponding author: Ali J. Ghandour, aghandour@cnrs.edu.lb;


                                                                              Abstract: Parameter Efficient Fine Tuning (PEFT) techniques have recently experienced significant
                                                                              growth and have been extensively employed to adapt large vision and language models to various
arXiv:2310.01825v2 [cs.CV] 27 Nov 2023




                                                                              domains, enabling satisfactory model performance with minimal computational needs. Despite
                                                                              these advances, more research has yet to delve into potential PEFT applications in real-life scenarios,
                                                                              particularly in the critical domains of remote sensing and crop monitoring. In the realm of crop
                                                                              monitoring, a key challenge persists in addressing the intricacies of cross-regional and cross-year crop
                                                                              type recognition. The diversity of climates across different regions and the need for comprehensive
                                                                              large-scale datasets have posed significant obstacles to accurately identify crop types across varying
                                                                              geographic locations and changing growing seasons. This study seeks to bridge this gap by com-
                                                                              prehensively exploring the feasibility of cross-area and cross-year out-of-distribution generalization
                                                                              using the State-of-the-Art (SOTA) wheat crop monitoring model. The aim of this work is to explore
                                                                              efficient fine-tuning approaches for crop monitoring. Specifically, we focus on adapting the SOTA
                                                                              TSViT model, recently proposed in CVPR 2023, to address winter wheat field segmentation, a critical
                                                                              task for crop monitoring and food security, especially following the Ukrainian conflict, given the
                                                                              economic importance of wheat as a staple and cash crop in various regions. This adaptation process
                                                                              involves integrating different PEFT techniques, including BigFit, LoRA, Adaptformer, and prompt
                                                                              tuning, each designed to streamline the fine-tuning process and ensure efficient parameter utilization.
                                                                              Using PEFT techniques, we achieved notable results comparable to those achieved using full fine-
                                                                              tuning methods while training only a mere 0.7% parameters of the entire TSViT architecture. More
                                                                              importantly, we achieved the claimed performance using a limited subset of remotely labeled data.
                                                                              The in-house labeled data-set, referred to as the Lebanese Wheat dataset, comprises high-quality
                                                                              annotated polygons for wheat and non-wheat classes for the study area in Beqaa, Lebanon, with
                                                                              a total surface of 170 km², over five consecutive years from 2016 to 2020. Using a time series of
                                                                              multispectral Sentinel-2 images, our model achieved a 84% F1-score when evaluated on the test set,
                                                                              shedding light on the ability of PEFT to drive accurate and efficient crop monitoring, designed mainly
                                                                              for developing countries characterized by limited data availability. Our code is publicly available at
                                                                              this Repo.
                                    Citation: Zahweh, M.; Nasrallah, H.;
                                    Shukor, M.; Faour, G.; Ghandour, A.       Keywords: Remote sensing; crop monitoring; PEFT; transformers; crop type recognition
                                    Empirical Study of PEFT techniques for
                                   Winter Wheat Segmentation. Environ.
                                    Sci. Proc. 2023, 1, 0. https://doi.org/
                                                                              1. Introduction
                                    Published:
                                                                                   Foundation models, mostly based on transformer architecture, have demonstrated
                                    Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.
                                                                              impressive success in many domains and benchmarks. However, the exponential increase
                                    Submitted to Environ. Sci. Proc. for
                                                                              in the number of parameters makes training these models extremely expensive and chal-
                                    possible open access publication
                                                                              lenging. This motivated researchers to propose more efficient approaches to fine-tune and
                                    under the terms and conditions
                                    of the Creative Commons Attri-
                                                                              adapt these models to downstream tasks.
                                    bution (CC BY) license (https://
                                                                                   Parameter-Efficient FineTuning (PEFT) encompasses a family of approaches that keep
                                    creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
                                                                              most of the parameters of pre-trained models frozen and train only part or additional
                                    4.0/).                                    parameters. PEFT approaches have been extensively investigated and used in the NLP




                                    Version November 28, 2023 submitted to Environ. Sci. Proc.                                          https://www.mdpi.com/journal/environsciproc
Version November 28, 2023 submitted to Environ. Sci. Proc.                                                                      2 of 8




                                    Figure 1. Large transfomer-based model PEFT-ing for down-stream task: TSViT model is pre-trained
                                    on PASTIS dataset and then multiple tuning techniques are applied for winter wheat crop detection
                                    using Beqaa-Lebanon and Munich 480 datasets.


                                    community and recently in the vision community. However, most of the work still considers
                                    general academic benchmarks and classical tasks.
                                          In this work, we explore efficient fine-tuning approaches for crop monitoring. Specifi-
                                    cally, we consider the recent state-of-the-art (SoTA) TSViT model that relies on time series
                                    of satellite images. Rather than fully tuning all model parameters, we fine-tune only a
                                    small number, using different techniques such as bias tuning, Adapters and LOw-RAnk
                                    adaptation as shown in Figure 1. This paper contribution is two-folds:
                                    •     We explore different PEFT techniques to efficiently adapt pre-trained models for crop
                                          type segmentation, and identify the most important parameters for each PEFT method
                                          to achieve the best performance.
                                    •     We experiment with different datasets from different countries like Germany and
                                          Lebanon and consider a realistic and challenging setup where we test the model on
                                          different year and regions.

                                    2. Framework
                                         In this work, we focus on efficient fine tuning of large transformer-based model for
                                    winter wheat crop segmentation, as shown in Figure 1. The Temporal Spatial Vision
                                    Transformer (TSViT) [1] is a recent state-of-the-art ision transformer that achieved SOTA
                                    for satellite image time series in the PASTIS dataset [2]. The model consists of a temporal
                                    transformer followed by a spatial transformer. The architecture is based on common
                                    practices used for video processing, where the model used temporal encoding before
                                    spatial encoding. Given its state-of-the-art performance in crop field segmentation, we
                                    choose TSViT as the main model upon which we conduct our experiments and comparisons.

                                    2.1. PEFT techniques
                                         To avoid training all model parameters, especially large transformer models, great
                                    effort has been put into promoting efficient fine-tuning approaches [3]. Most of this work is
                                    focused on Large-Language Models (LLMs) [4–8]. Some effort has been made to address
                                    vision model efficient tuning [10,11], however, very little work has considered PEFT
                                    techniques for remote sensing satellite images applications [12].
                                         Parameter Efficient Fine Tuning (PEFT) techniques focus on training the least size of
                                    parameters in the most efficient way possible. These techniques achieve results equivalent
                                    to or better than full fine-tuning, reducing the cost of both training and storing the model
                                    with minimal loss (and sometimes non).
Version November 28, 2023 submitted to Environ. Sci. Proc.                                                                     3 of 8




                                          In our work, we investigate the effectiveness of the following PEFT techniques for the
                                    task of crop field segmentation given a time series of Sentinel-2 images: (i) BitFit, (ii) Visual
                                    Prompt Tuning, (iii) LoRA, (iv) Adapter.
                                          BitFit [13] is a technique that focuses on training the Bias only, rather than the whole
                                    model. BitFit requires the least number of trainable parameters among other PEFT methods
                                    (note that head tuning requires fewer trainable parameters than BitFit).
                                          Visual Prompt Tuning (VPT) [14] is a PEFT technique that adds additional prompt
                                    parameters concatenated to the input of the transformer that can help the model under-
                                    stand the different tasks and achieve better results. This prompt can be added to the first
                                    transformer encoder layer only, which is called Shallow prompt tuning, or added to each
                                    transformer encoder layer, which is known as Deep prompt Tuning. Furthermore, given
                                    that the TSViT architecture is uniquely characterized by the presence of two transformers,
                                    one focused on temporal information followed by another on spatial data, it opened up an
                                    opportunity to experiment with dual prompts.
                                          LoRA [6] aims to train a smaller coinciding model with a low intrinsic rank r. Low-
                                    Rank Adaption (LoRA) freezes the original weight matrix W0 and trains a separate update
                                    matrix that is formed by the product of two separate matrices A and B. In our LoRA
                                    experiments, we investigate the effect of the following hyperparameters of the additional
                                    modules: (i) rt: rank of the temporal transformer LoRA layers, (ii) rs: rank of the spatial
                                    transformer LoRA layers, and (iii) rr: rank of the rest of Lora layers.
                                          Adapter [15] tuning is a method that aims to achieve efficient model adaptation by
                                    introducing two additional layers in the feed-forward steps. It can be added in series or in
                                    parallel with the feed forward layer.
                                          Given the dual nature of the TSViT, our attention was primarily divided between two
                                    critical hyperparameters: the spatial adapter dimension and the temporal spatial dimension.
                                    The former pertains to the scale and complexity of spatial data processing, while the latter
                                    concerns the interpretation of temporal data. These dimensions essentially determine the
                                    granularity and depth of information processing within the transformer.

                                    2.2. Baselines
                                         Before the analytical comparison of our results, it is necessary to establish clear base-
                                    lines. These baselines will serve as foundational benchmarks against PEFT. To ensure a
                                    logical comparison, we have incorporated a blend of traditional and specialized fine-tuning
                                    techniques. The techniques selected for our baseline are as follows:
                                    •     Training from Scratch: In this approach, the TSViT model was trained without using
                                          any prior weights. The goal of this strategy was to discern the innate potential of the
                                          TSViT architecture without the influence of fine-tuning.
                                    •     Full Fine-Tuning: Given a pre-trained model, we apply transfer learning by training
                                          all model parameters on a new data set using a low learning rate. It represents an
                                          aspirational benchmark: any PEFT technique that can perform as well or better than
                                          full fine-tuning would be deemed successful.
                                    •     Head Fine-Tuning: This technique introduces a layer to the front of the model, which
                                          then undergoes training. It is minimalist, targeting only the initial aspects of the
                                          model and setting the minimal performance expectation. Any PEFT technique that
                                          underperforms compared to this baseline would need re-evaluation.
                                    •     Token Tuning: TSViT stands out due to its reliance on temporal tokens for segmen-
                                          tation. This intrinsic characteristic opens up the possibility of a unique fine-tuning
                                          technique: Token Tuning. By manipulating the temporal tokens, one can effectively
                                          alter the output classes. It is a nuanced method, specifically for the TSViT model.

                                    2.3. Datasets
                                         We used two datasets in this study: (i) Beqaa-Lebanon that we prepared in-house for
                                    the scope of this work and (ii) Munich 480 dataset.
Version November 28, 2023 submitted to Environ. Sci. Proc.                                                                         4 of 8




                                         Beqaa-Lebanon data set was labeled for this project, where we annotated a weakly
                                    supervised data set of approximately 2,000 wheat parcels per year from 2016 to 2019. We
                                    then labeled an equivalent area of negative samples (non-wheat areas) per year to balance
                                    our data set. The total annotated area per year (from 2016 to 2019) is 170 km2 . Finally, we
                                    thouroughly annotated the year 2020 as a test set of surface area equal to 981 km2 , with
                                    about 16% positive samples (wheat). In all our experiments, we used the annotated area
                                    of years 2016 to 2019 as our training set. We also split year 2020 into four tiles, where
                                    one of them was used for validation purpose, and the remaining three as a test set. All
                                    experimental results are based on the test set.
                                         The study area is divided into 24 ∗ 24 tiles as in the paper [1], which means that each
                                    input contains T*24*24*C, where T is the number of images that make up a time series of
                                    Sentinel-2 images for each wheat season, and C is the number of Sentinel-2 bands used. We
                                    set T = 9, corresponding to a series of images from November to July, and C = 10.
                                         Munich 480 dataset [16] covers an area of 102 km * 42 km in Munich, Germany. It
                                    consists of 30 images per year split into 48 ∗ 48 tiles made of all 13 Sentinel-2 bands and
                                    covering 27 different crop classes. We splitted images into 24 ∗ 24 tiles and used 60%-20%-
                                    20% ratio for train-validation-test sets distribution.

                                    3. Experimental Results
                                         In this section, we will discuss the details of the implementation of the model, as well
                                    as the process of training or tuning the model using different techniques and baselines.
                                    In all our experiments, we used Adam optimizer, trained each model for 20 epochs, set
                                    batch size to 16 and kept a constant learning rate throughout the entire training process.
                                    All experiments were implemented using the Pytorch library on a single Nvidia GeForce
                                    TiTan XP 12GB GPU.
                                         In the following subsections, we discuss and compare the results of different PEFT
                                    techniques using the Beqaa-Lebanon dataset. For comparison, F1-score is used as our main
                                    metric. F1-score measures a model’s accuracy by combining precision and recall scores.
                                    Cross-validation was performed after each epoch, and the model with the best validation
                                    score was saved. As shown in Figure 2, the predictions of our best model achieve high
                                    F1-scores, in the order of 85%.

                                                         Method                Trainable Parameters (%)     F1-score
                                                         BitFit-Partial Bias             0.29                 83.0
                                                         BitFit-Full Bias                0.54                  83.9
                                                         VPT                             0.29                 83.5
                                                         LoRA                            5.87                 84.76
                                                         AdaptFormer                     1.09                 85.0
                                                         Head tune                       0.05                 56.0
                                                         Full finetuning                 100                  84.3
                                    Table 1. Performance of various PEFT techniques and the baselines in term of F1-score and percentage
                                    of trainable parameters on Beqaa-Lebanon dataset. Adaptformer offers the best performance (even
                                    better than full fine-tuning) with an F1-score of 85%.



                                    3.1. BitFit and LoRA
                                          BitFit is the simplest PEFT technique but showed promising results. As shown in
                                    Table 1, partial- and full-bias PEFT-ing of the TSVit model on the Beqaa-Lebanon dataset
                                    can achieve an F1 score of 83% and 83. 9%, respectively. These results are comparable to
                                    full fine-tuning while only training 0.29% and 0.54% of the model parameters, respectively.
                                          For LoRA, we conducted four series of experiments to assess the influence of hyper-
                                    parameters discussed in Section 2.1. The best results are obtained when all intrinsic ranks
                                    are equal. This observation is best explained by the fact that the original and downstream
Version November 28, 2023 submitted to Environ. Sci. Proc.                                                                            5 of 8




                                    Figure 2. Best model predictions and F1-scores for some tiles, in addition to the ground truth.

                                                   Temporal      Spatial        External     Deep       F1-Score(%)
                                                   Dimension    Dimension       Prompt      Prompt
                                      Series 1         4            4              ✘           ✓            82.12
                                                      8            8               ✘           ✓            82.88
                                                      16           16              ✘           ✓            82.35
                                      Series 2         4            4              ✓           ✓            82.16
                                                       8            8              ✓           ✓            82.75
                                                      16           16              ✓           ✓            83.50
                                      Series 3         8            8              ✓           ✘            81.36
                                                       4            4              ✓           ✘            79.00
                                      Series 4         8            0              ✓           ✓            83.50
                                                       0            8              ✓           ✓            69.73
                                    Table 2. Visual Prompt Tuning Experimentation Table



                                    tasks are the same here (crop-field segmentation), and thus the LoRA training should be
                                    balanced to match the flow of the model. The best results of LoRA tuning can be reached
                                    by balancing all modules’ ranks where the highest F1-score of 84.9% is achieved with
                                    rt = rs = rr = 4. Detailed results are not included here for space limitations.

                                    3.2. VPT and Adaptformer
                                         Visual Prompt Tuning experiments delves further into the impact of various con-
                                    figurations. We conducted four series of experiments to assess the influence of different
                                    configuration settings, as shown in Table2.
                                    •     Series 1: External prompt is not used and the model is deep. The F1 score hovers
                                          around the low 82% range, regardless of the temporal and spatial dimensions.
                                    •     Series 2: We used an external deep prompt that shows outstanding performance,
                                          where the highest F1-score of 83.5% is achieved at dimensions 16 ∗ 16.
                                    •     Series 3: We used an external shallow prompt and witnessed a dip in performance,
                                          with F1 scores of 81.36% and 79% for dimensions 8 ∗ 8 and 4 ∗ 4, respectively. This
Version November 28, 2023 submitted to Environ. Sci. Proc.                                                                6 of 8




                                    Figure 3. F1-scores results upon varying AdapterFromer’s spatial and temporal dimensions on
                                    Beqaa-Lebanon dataset.


                                          suggests that although the shallow prompt might not be as effective as the deep
                                          prompt, it still outperforms head tuning, as shown in Table 1.
                                    •     Series 4: We experiment here with setting one dimension (temporal and spatial) at a
                                          time to zero while using an external deep prompt. An F1-score of 83.5% is achieved
                                          when the temporal dimension is set to 8 and the spatial dimension is equal to zero,
                                          but the performance drops significantly to 69.73% the other way around (temporal set
                                          to zero).
                                         Series 1 and 2 showed that using the prompt inside the transformer’s Q and K matri-
                                    ces only, which was proposed in the literature, does not have any advantage over adding
                                    it outside the transformer encoder layer. On the other hand, Series 2 and 3 showed that
                                    deep prompts lead to better performance. Series 4 concludes that prompt tuning of only
                                    the temporal transformer is sufficient, and it is safe not to tune the spatial transformer.

                                         Similarly to VPT, we test the influence of the Adaptformer spatial and temporal di-
                                    mensions as shown in Figure 3. Spatial adapters showed negligible importance compared
                                    to temporal ones. A 84.5% F1-score is attained when we set the temporal dimension to
                                    8 and ignore the spatial dimension. On the contrary, we witness a 4.6% drop in F1-score
                                    when doing the opposite (setting the temporal dimension to zero). AdaptFormer revealed
                                    the best performance among all PEFT techniques and the baselines with a F1-score of 84.9%
                                    when the adapter temporal and spatial dimensions were equal to 8.

                                          We finally note that LoRA and Adaptformer were the only PEFT techniques that
                                    provided better F1-scores (84.76% and 85%, respectively) than full fining of the model
                                    while training only less than 1% of the model parameters. Also, as tabulated in Table 1,
                                    both Bitfit and VPT provided comparable but fewer results than full fine-tuning, while
                                    still having at least 27% better F1-score than the simple Head-tuning baseline. This shows
                                    that all considered PEFT techniques, when tuned carefully, are capable of reaching 98% of
                                    fully trained model performance. Furthermore, we investigate the effect of varying the
Version November 28, 2023 submitted to Environ. Sci. Proc.                                                                             7 of 8




                                    learning rate in all PEFT methods. These experiments will not be shown here because of
                                    space limitations.
                                         In summary, following an extensive set of experiments, AdaptFormer model produced
                                    an 85% F1-score on the Beqaa-Lebanon test set with only 1.09% of the model parameters.

                                    3.3. Munich 480 dataset
                                         To further support our findings, we apply the following five training techniques
                                    in the Munich 480 dataset: (i) Head Tune, (ii) Partial Token Tune, (iii) Token Tune, (iv)
                                    AdaptFormer and (v) Training from scratch as shown in Table 3.
                                         Partial and full token tuning provided better F1 scores (67.4% and 75.2%, respectively)
                                    than head tuning (63.9%). Adaptformer outperforms partial and full token tuning tech-
                                    niques with a margin greater than 10%. Moreover, Adaptformer only lays 4% behind full
                                    model training while only training 0.8%of the model parameters.

                                              Training Technique        F1-score (%)      IoU (%)     Trainable Parameters (%)
                                                 AdaptFormer                84.7            74.3                0.808
                                                  Head Tune                  63.9           48.4                  0.079
                                              Partial Token Tune             67.4           52.1                  0.061
                                                Full Token Tune              75.2           61.3                  0.208
                                             Training from scratch           88.9           80.7                   100
                                    Table 3. F1-scores of different investigated training scenarios in the Munich 480 dataset.



                                    4. Conclusion
                                         In this paper, we empirically studied the use of the parameter-efficient fine tuning
                                    (PEFT) technique to adapt the state-of-the-art TSViT model in two different countries,
                                    namely Lebanon and Germany. We showed that PEFT methods can achieve accurate results
                                    with a size of about 1% of the model parameters. Our investigation provided several im-
                                    portant findings on the effectiveness of applying parameter-efficient fine-tuning strategies
                                    in TSViT for winter wheat segmentation, where we were able to achieve an F1-score of 85%
                                    while training only 0.72% parameters. We analyzed each PEFT method’s hyperparameters,
                                    and pointed out the best settings to achieve the highest possible individual performance.

                                    Funding: “This research received no external funding”.
                                    Conflicts of Interest: “The authors declare no conflict of interest.”

References
1.    Tarasiou, M.; Chavez, E.; Zafeiriou, S. ViTs for SITS: Vision Transformers for Satellite Image Time Series, 2023, [arXiv:cs.CV/2301.04944].
2.    Garnot, V.S.F.; Landrieu, L. Panoptic segmentation of satellite image time series with convolutional temporal attention networks.
      In Proceedings of the Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision, 2021, pp. 4872–4881.
3.    Lialin, V.; Deshpande, V.; Rumshisky, A. Scaling down to scale up: A guide to parameter-efficient fine-tuning. arXiv preprint
      arXiv:2303.15647 2023.
4.    Lester, B.; Al-Rfou, R.; Constant, N. The Power of Scale for Parameter-Efficient Prompt Tuning. In Proceedings of the Proceedings
      of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2021, pp. 3045–3059.
5.    Houlsby, N.; Giurgiu, A.; Jastrzebski, S.; Morrone, B.; De Laroussilhe, Q.; Gesmundo, A.; Attariyan, M.; Gelly, S. Parameter-
      efficient transfer learning for NLP. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Machine Learning. PMLR, 2019, pp.
      2790–2799.
6.    Hu, E.J.; Shen, Y.; Wallis, P.; Allen-Zhu, Z.; Li, Y.; Wang, S.; Wang, L.; Chen, W. Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language
      models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.09685 2021.
7.    Li, X.L.; Liang, P. Prefix-tuning: Optimizing continuous prompts for generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.00190 2021.
8.    Karimi Mahabadi, R.; Henderson, J.; Ruder, S. Compacter: Efficient low-rank hypercomplex adapter layers. Advances in Neural
      Information Processing Systems 2021, 34, 1022–1035.
9.    Liu, H.; Tam, D.; Muqeeth, M.; Mohta, J.; Huang, T.; Bansal, M.; Raffel, C. Few-shot parameter-efficient fine-tuning is better and
      cheaper than in-context learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.05638 2022.
Version November 28, 2023 submitted to Environ. Sci. Proc.                                                                       8 of 8




10.   Jia, M.; Tang, L.; Chen, B.C.; Cardie, C.; Belongie, S.; Hariharan, B.; Lim, S.N. Visual Prompt Tuning. In Proceedings of the
      European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), 2022.
11.   Chen, S.; GE, C.; Tong, Z.; Wang, J.; Song, Y.; Wang, J.; Luo, P. AdaptFormer: Adapting Vision Transformers for Scalable Visual
      Recognition. In Proceedings of the Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems; Oh, A.H.; Agarwal, A.; Belgrave, D.;
      Cho, K., Eds., 2022.
12.   Yuan, Y.; Zhan, Y.; Xiong, Z. Parameter-Efficient Transfer Learning for Remote Sensing Image-Text Retrieval. IEEE Transactions on
      Geoscience and Remote Sensing 2023.
13.   Zaken, E.B.; Ravfogel, S.; Goldberg, Y. Bitfit: Simple parameter-efficient fine-tuning for transformer-based masked language-
      models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.10199 2021.
14.   Jia, M.; Tang, L.; Chen, B.C.; Cardie, C.; Belongie, S.; Hariharan, B.; Lim, S.N. Visual prompt tuning. In Proceedings of the
      European Conference on Computer Vision. Springer, 2022, pp. 709–727.
15.   Chen, S.; GE, C.; Tong, Z.; Wang, J.; Song, Y.; Wang, J.; Luo, P. AdaptFormer: Adapting Vision Transformers for Scalable Visual
      Recognition. In Proceedings of the Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems; Koyejo, S.; Mohamed, S.; Agarwal, A.;
      Belgrave, D.; Cho, K.; Oh, A., Eds. Curran Associates, Inc., 2022, Vol. 35, pp. 16664–16678.
16.   Rußwurm, M.; Körner, M. Multi-temporal land cover classification with sequential recurrent encoders. ISPRS International Journal
      of Geo-Information 2018, 7, 129.
