                                            Unsupervised Domain Adaptation For Plant
                                                         Organ Counting

                                                  Tewodros W. Ayalew, Jordan R. Ubbens, and Ian Stavness

                                                   University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon SK, S7N 5A8, Canada
                                                   {tewodros.ayalew,jordan.ubbens,ian.stavness}@usask.ca
arXiv:2009.01081v1 [cs.CV] 2 Sep 2020




                                              Abstract. Supervised learning is often used to count objects in im-
                                              ages, but for counting small, densely located objects, the required image
                                              annotations are burdensome to collect. Counting plant organs for image-
                                              based plant phenotyping falls within this category. Object counting in
                                              plant images is further challenged by having plant image datasets with
                                              significant domain shift due to different experimental conditions, e.g.
                                              applying an annotated dataset of indoor plant images for use on out-
                                              door images, or on a different plant species. In this paper, we propose a
                                              domain-adversarial learning approach for domain adaptation of density
                                              map estimation for the purposes of object counting. The approach does
                                              not assume perfectly aligned distributions between the source and target
                                              datasets, which makes it more broadly applicable within general object
                                              counting and plant organ counting tasks. Evaluation on two diverse ob-
                                              ject counting tasks (wheat spikelets, leaves) demonstrates consistent per-
                                              formance on the target datasets across different classes of domain shift:
                                              from indoor-to-outdoor images and from species-to-species adaptation.



                                        1   Introduction

                                        Object counting is an important task in computer vision with a wide range of
                                        applications, including counting the number of people in a crowd [21,42,34], the
                                        number of cars on a street [37,46], and the number of cells in a microscopy
                                        image [44,49,32]. Object counting is a relevant task in image-based plant pheno-
                                        typing, notably for counting plants in the field to estimate the rate of seedling
                                        emergence, and counting plant organs to estimate traits relevant for selection in
                                        crop breeding programs. For example, counting spikes or heads in cereal crops is
                                        a relevant trait for estimating grain yield [33,27,2], counting flowers for estimat-
                                        ing the start and duration of flowering is relevant for demarcating plant growth
                                        stages [23,3,45], and counting leaves and tillers is a relevant trait to assess plant
                                        health [16,1]. Leaf counting, in particular, has been a seminal plant phenotyping
                                        task, thanks to the CVPPP leaf counting competition dataset [30,29].
                                        Convolutional neural networks (CNN) provide state-of-the-art performance for
                                        object counting tasks. Supervised learning is most common in previous work,
                                        but object detection [22,20] and density estimation [21,31,27] approaches both
                                        require fairly tedious annotation of training images with either bounding boxes
2       T. Ayalew et al.

or dots centered on each object instance. In the context of plant phenotyping,
plant organ objects are often small and densely packed making the annotation
process even more laborious. In addition, unlike general objects which can be
annotated reliably by any individual, identifying and annotating plant organs in
images often requires specialized training and experience in plant science [14,48].
This makes it difficult to obtain large annotated plant image datasets.

Another challenge for computer vision tasks in plant phenotyping is that, un-
like large image datasets of general objects, plant image datasets usually include
highly self-similar images with a small amount of variation among images within
the dataset. An individual plant image dataset is often acquired under similar
conditions (single crop type, same field) and therefore trying to directly use a
CNN trained on a single dataset to new images from a different crop, field, or
growing season will likely fail. This is because a model trained to count objects on
one dataset (source dataset) will not perform well on a different dataset (target
dataset) when these datasets have different prior distributions. This challenge is
generally called domain-shift. An extreme case of domain shift in plant pheno-
typing is using a source dataset of plant images collected in an indoor controlled
environment, which can be more easily annotated because plants are separated
with controlled lighting on a blank background, and attempting to apply the
model to a target dataset of outdoor field images with multiple, overlapping
plants with variable lighting and backgrounds, and blur due to wind motion.
Domain shift is often handled by fine-tuning a model, initially trained on a
source dataset, with samples taken from a target dataset. Fine-tuning, however,
still requires some annotated images in the target dataset. Another approach
used to solve this problem is domain adaptation. Domain adaptation techniques
typically try to align the source and the target data distributions [15].

In this paper, we propose a method that applies an unsupervised domain adap-
tation technique, first proposed for image classification [9], to jointly train a
CNN to count objects from images with dot annotations (i.e., source domain)
and adapt this knowledge to related sets of images (i.e., target domain) where
labels are absent. We modeled the object counting problem as a density map
estimation problem. We evaluated our proposed domain adaptation method on
two object counting tasks (wheat spikelet counting and rosette leaf counting)
each with a different challenge. The wheat spikelet counting task adapts from
indoor images to outdoor images and presents challenges due to self-similarity,
self-occlusion, and appearance variation [33,2]. The leaf counting task adapts
from one plant species to a different plant species and presents variability in
leaf shape and size, as well as overlapping and occluded leaves [19]. Results show
consistent improvements over the baseline models and comparable results to pre-
vious domain adaptation work in leaf counting. The contributions of our paper
include: 1) the extension of an adversarial domain adaptation method for den-
sity map estimation that learns and adapts in parallel, 2) the evaluation of our
method on two diverse counting tasks, and 3) a new public dataset of annotated
wheat spikelets imaged in outdoor field conditions.
                                   Domain Adaptation for Organ Counting         3

2   Related Work

Object Counting. A number of approaches have been proposed to train CNNs
for object counting tasks. Among these, the most prominent methods are count-
ing by regression [16,8,40,1], counting by object detection [28,13,12], and count-
ing by density estimation [21,11,36,33]. Here, we focus on density estimation
methods, which estimate a count by generating a continuous density map and
then summing over the pixel values of the density map. Density estimation uses
weak labels (dot annotations on object centers), which are less tedious to anno-
tate than bounding boxes or instance segmentation masks. Density estimation
based counting was first proposed by Lempitsky & Zisserman [21] who demon-
strated higher counting accuracy with smaller amounts of data.
Spikelet Counting. Pound et al. [33] presented a method for counting and
localizing spikes and spikelets using stacked hourglass networks. They trained
and evaluated their model on spring wheat plant images taken in a controlled
environment. Their approach achieved a 95.91% accuracy for spike counting and
a 99.66% accuracy for spikelet counting. Even though their results show high
accuracy, counting spikelets from real field images requires further fine-tuning
of their model. Alkhudaydi et al. [2] proposed a method to count spikelets from
infield images using a fully convolutional network named SpikeletFCN. They
compared the performance of training SpikeletFCN from scratch on infield im-
ages and fine-tuning the model, which was initially trained using images taken in
a controlled setting [33]. They also showed that manually segmenting the back-
ground increased performance, but manually annotating spikelets and manually
removing backgrounds for field images is a time-consuming process.
Leaf Counting. Leaf counting in rosette plants has been performed with CNN-
based regression approaches. Dobrescu et al. [8] used a pre-trained ResNet archi-
tecture fine-tuned on rosette images to demonstrate state-of-the-art leaf counting
performance in the CVPPP 2017 leaf counting competition. Aich & Stavness [1]
presented a two-step leaf counting method, first using an encoder-decoder net-
work to segment the plant region from the background, and then using a VGG-
like CNN to estimate the count. Giuffrida et al. [16] extended the CNN regression
method to show that using multiple image modalities can improve counting accu-
racy. They also demonstrated the generality of the approach by evaluating with
different plant species and image modalities. Itzhaky et al. [18] proposed two
deep learning based approaches that utilize a Feature Pyramid Network (FPN)
for counting leaves, namely using direct regression and density map estimation.
Their density map based approach achieved 95% average precision.
Domain Adaptation. In recent years, a number of deep domain adaptation
approaches have been proposed to minimize the domain shift between a source
dataset and a target dataset [17,38,26,5,39,25]. Tzeng et al. [39] proposed an
adversarial approach for an unsupervised domain adaptation named Adversarial
Discriminative Domain Adaptation (ADDA). ADDA minimizes the represen-
tation shift between the two domains using a Generative Adversarial Network
4      T. Ayalew et al.

(GAN) loss function where the domains are allowed to have independent map-
pings. As an alternative to a GAN loss, Ganin & Lempitsky [9] presented an un-
supervised domain adaptation technique by creating a network that has a shared
feature extraction layers and two classifiers. The adaptation process works by
minimizing the class label prediction loss and maximizing the domain confusion.
These previous works have only been evaluated on image classification problems.
Domain adaptation has garnered less attention for other computer vision tasks,
such as density estimation or regression problems.
Domain Adaptation in Plant Phenotyping. Giuffrida et al. [15] proposed
a method to adapt a model trained to count leaves in a particular dataset to
an unseen dataset in an unsupervised manner. Under the assumption that the
images in the source domain are private, their method uses the representations
of images from the source domain (from a pretrained network) to adapt to the
target domain. They employed the Adversarial Discriminative Domain Adap-
tation approach to solving the domain shift problem in the leaf counting task
across different datasets. Their method aligns the predicted leaf count distri-
bution with the source domain’s prior distribution, which limits the adapted
model to learning a leaf count distribution similar to the source domain. They
have shown their method achieved a mean square error of 2.36 and 1.84 for
intra-species and inter-species domain adaptation experiments, respectively. For
fruit counting in orchard images, Bellocchio et al. [4] proposed a Cycle-GAN
based domain adaptation method combined with weak presence/absence labels.
They demonstrated state-of-the-art counting results for many combinations of
adapting between plant species (almond, apple, olive).
These promising results on leaf and fruit counting motivate a broader investiga-
tion of different domain adaptation approaches, which could be used for counting
different plant organs and different categories of domain shift, e.g. from indoor
image to field images. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that
has applied domain adaptation to wheat spikelet counting and to a counting
task with an indoor-to-outdoor domain shift.


3     Method

In this section, we discuss the problem setting for our proposed method, fol-
lowed by a description of the proposed architecture and cost function. Finally
we describe the training procedures used for all experiments.


3.1   Problem Setting

We model the task of domain adaptation in object counting as an unsupervised
domain adaptation problem. We assume that the data is sampled from two
domains: a source domain (Ds ) and a target domain (Dt ). We also assume that
                                   Domain Adaptation for Organ Counting          5

labels only exist for the images sampled from the source domain. Therefore, the
source domain is composed of a set of images (X s ) and their corresponding labels
(Y s ). Whereas, the target domain only has images (X t ) without labels.


3.2   Architecture




Fig. 1. The proposed Domain-Adversarial Neural Network composed of two networks
that share weights between Conv1 and Conv8. The downsampling subnetwork (Gd ),
the upsampling subnetwork (Gu ), and the domain classifier (Gc ) are denoted by the
blue, red, and green boxes respectively. The red arrow shows the Gradient Reversal
Layer used to reverse the gradient in the backpropagation step as proposed by [9].



Our proposed model is a Domain-Adversarial Neural Network (DANN), a class of
models designed for unsupervised domain adaptation tasks [10]. These networks
are commonly characterized by two parallel classification networks that share
weights in the first n layers and a custom layer called Gradient Reversal Layer
(GRL) [43]. One of the parallel networks is designed for the main classification
task, while the second network is a classifier designed to discriminate whether
an input is sampled from the source domain or from the target domain. We
customize this general architecture by replacing the main classification network
with a U-Net network [35] that is used for density map estimation.
Our proposed architecture is a fully convolutional network composed of two par-
allel networks, as can be seen in Figure 1. These parallel networks share weights
from Conv1 to Conv8. Given these shared weights, the architecture can be seen
as one network containing three subnetworks: the downsampling subnetwork
(Gd ), the upsampling subnetwork (Gu ), and the domain classifier subnetwork
(Gc ). In Figure 1 these subnetworks are denoted by different color boxes. The
model takes an image xj and predicts a density map as ŷdensity = Gu (Gd (xj ))
and a class probability prediction representing whether xj is sampled from the
source domain or from the target domain given by ŷdomain = Gc (Gd (xj )).
6      T. Ayalew et al.

A downsampling subnetwork followed by an upsampling subnetwork (sometimes
referred to as an Hourglass network or encoder-decoder network) is a commonly
used architecture for density estimation tasks[24,44]. The general structure for
the Hourglass network we used is adapted from U-Net [35] with slight mod-
ifications. The downsampling subnetwork is composed of blocks of two 3 × 3
padded convolutions followed by a 2 × 2 max pooling layer with a stride of 2.
The upsampling network is composed of blocks of 2 × 2 transpose convolutions
followed by a pair of 3 × 3 padded convolutions. The feature maps generated
from each convolution preceded by a transpose convolution are concatenated
with their corresponding feature maps from the upsampling subnetwork (shown
in Figure 1 as dashed boxes). The domain classifier subnetwork is formed from
3 × 3 unpadded convolutions, a 2 × 2 maxpooling layers, and a 1 × 1 convolution
(which is used to reduce the dimension of the output to a single value). All of
the convolutions in our network, with the exception of the ones in the output
layers, are followed by batch normalization and a ReLU activation. The output
layer is followed by a sigmoid activation function.

The output of the downsampling subnetwork passes through a Gradient Reversal
Layer (GRL) before passing through to the domain classifier subnetwork. The
GRL, a custom layer proposed by [9], is designed to reverse the gradient in
the backpropagation step by multiplying the gradient by a negative constant
(−λ). The purpose of reversing the gradient is to force the network into finding
domain-invariant features common to both the source- and the target- domain.
This aligns the distributions of the feature representations of images sampled
from the two domains.



3.3   Cost Function


The parameters in our proposed model are optimized by minimizing a two-part
cost function, as follows:

                            N
                        1 X
      Ldensity = log(         (Gu (Gd (xsi )) − yis )2 )                             (1)
                        N i=0

      Ldomain = −Exs ∼X s [log(Gc (Gd (xsi ))] − Ext ∼X t [1 − log(Gc (Gd (xti ))]   (2)
             L = Ldensity + Ldomain                                                  (3)

where (xsi , yis ) represents the ith image and density map label sampled from the
source domain (Ds ). The first part (Ldensity ) accounts for errors in the density
map estimation for samples taken from the source domain. This is implemented
as the logarithm of mean square error between the ground truth sampled from
the source dataset and the predicted density map from the model. The second
part (Ldomain ) is a Binary Cross-Entropy loss for domain classification.
                                    Domain Adaptation for Organ Counting           7

3.4   Training

Conceptually, the general training scheme we use to train our model can be
decomposed into two sub-tasks: supervised density estimation on the source
dataset, and domain classification on the merged source and target datasets.
The goal of this training scheme is to extract relevant features for the density
estimation task and, in parallel, condition the downsampling network to extract
domain-invariant features.
In all experiments, we randomly partitioned the source domain dataset into
training and validation sets. Since we only have ground truth density maps for
the source domain, in-training validations are carried out using the validation
set taken from the source domain.
The model was trained with a batch size of 8. The input images in the training set
were resized to 256×256 pixels. We used the Adam optimizer with tuned learning
rates for each subnetwork. We used a learning rate of 10−3 for the downsampling
and upsampling subnetworks, and 10−4 for the domain classifier.
The constant parameter λ — which multiplies the gradient in the GRL layer — is
updated on each iteration during training. Following [10], the value is provided to
the network as a scheduler in an incremental manner ranging from 0 to 1.


4     Experiments

In this section, we present two object counting tasks to evaluate the proposed
method: wheat spikelet counting and leaf counting.
Our proposed method’s performance in all of the experiments is evaluated using
target domain data as our test set. Our experiments are mainly assessed using
Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) and Mean Absolute Error (MAE):
                                    v
                                    u
                                    u1 X N
                        RM SE = t           (yˆi − yi )2
                                      N i=0

                                           N
                                       1 X
                             M AE =          |yˆi − yi |
                                       N i=0

where N represents the number of test images, yˆi and yi represent the predicted
value and the ground truth for the ith sample, respectively.
In addition to these metrics, we include task-specific metrics that are commonly
used in the literature for each task. For the wheat spikelet task, we provide coeffi-
cient of determination (R2 ) between the predicted and ground truth counts. For
the leaf counting task, we report metrics that are provided for the CVPPP 2017
8       T. Ayalew et al.




Fig. 2. Example images for wheat spikelet counting experiments. Top: Source dataset,
ACID [33]. Middle: Target dataset 1, Global Wheat Head Dataset [7]. Bottom: Target
dataset 2, CropQuant dataset [47].


leaf counting competition. These metrics are Difference in Count (DiC), abso-
lute Difference in Count (|DiC|), mean squared error (M SE) and percentage
agreement(%).
To demonstrate the counting performance improvement provided by domain
adaptation, we use a vanilla U-Net as a baseline model by removing the domain
classifier sub-network from our proposed architecture. We train this baseline
model exclusively on the source domain and evaluate performance on the target
domain data. All experiments were performed on a GeForce RTX 2070 GPU with
8GB memory using the Pytorch framework. The implementation is available at:
https://github.com/p2irc/UDA4POC


4.1   Wheat Spikelet Counting

For the wheat spikelet counting task, we used the general problem definition of
wheat spikelet counting as stated in [2]. Under this setting, our second exper-
iment tries to adapt the wheat spikelet counting task from images taken in a
greenhouse to images captured in an outdoor field. The datasets used for this
task are as follows:
                                   Domain Adaptation for Organ Counting         9

1. ACID dataset [33]: This dataset is composed of wheat plant images taken
   in a greenhouse setting. Each image has dot annotations representing the
   position of each spikelet. The ground truth density maps were generated by
   filtering the dot annotations with a 2D gaussian filter with σ = 1.
2. Global Wheat Head Dataset (GWHD) [7]: A dataset presented in the Kaggle
   wheat head detection competition. The dataset comes with bounding box
   annotations for each wheat head, but these are not used in the present study.
3. CropQuant dataset [47]: This dataset is composed of images collected by
   the Norwich Research Park (NRP). As a ground truth, we used the dot
   annotations created by [2], where they annotated 15 of the images from the
   CropQuant dataset. The ground truth has a total of 63,006 spikelets.
We chose the ACID dataset as the source domain and the GWHD dataset as the
target domain. Sample images from these datasets are displayed in Figure 2. We
randomly sampled 80% of the images in the source dataset for training. These
images were mixed with 200 images taken from the target dataset, making up
the training set. Using this training set, the network is trained on the ACID
dataset for spikelet counting and, in parallel, adapted to the GWHD. To evaluate
our method, we created dot annotations for 67 images from the GWHD which
are used as ground truth. These annotations are made publicly available at
https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.12652973.v2.
In the second experiment, we used the CropQuant dataset as the target domain.
To be consistent with the experiments presented in [2], we randomly extracted
512×512 sized patches from each image in the CropQuant dataset. We generated
300 patches as the target domain. We partitioned the source domain with 80:20
training-validation split. We merged the training split with the generated patches
and trained the model.


4.2   Leaf Counting

For the leaf counting task, we follow [15] in order to compare to their baseline
results. Therefore, we used the following datasets:
1. CVPPP 2017 LCC Dataset [30,29]: A dataset compiled for the CVPPP leaf
   counting competition, containing top-view images of Arabidopsis thaliana
   and tobacco plants. To be consistent with [15], we use the A1, A2 and A4
   Arabidopsis image subsets. The dataset includes annotations for leaf seg-
   mentation masks, leaf bounding boxes, and leaf center dot annotations. We
   use the leaf center annotations and generate the groudtruth density map by
   filtering the center points with a 2D gaussian filter with σ = 3.
2. KOMATSUNA Dataset [41]: Top-view images of Komatsuna plants devel-
   oped for 3D plant phenotyping tasks. We use the RGB images for the ex-
   periments presented here.
10      T. Ayalew et al.




Fig. 3. Example images for leaf counting experiments. Top: Source dataset, Arabidop-
sis, CVPPP Dataset [30,29]. Middle: Target dataset 1, KOMATSUNA Dataset [41].
Bottom: Target dataset 2, Arabidopsis MSU-PID Dataset [6].



 3. MSU-PID[6]: A multi-modal imagery dataset which contains images of Ara-
    bidopsis and bean plants. Among these, we used the RGB images of the
    Arabidopsis subset.
Figure 3 shows sample images from these datasets. Using these datasets, we per-
formed three leaf-counting experiments in total. In all experiments, the CVPPP
dataset was used as the source domain.
The first experiment involved adapting leaf counting from the CVPPP dataset
to the KOMATSUNA dataset. For this experiment, we randomly selected 80%
of the images from the CVPPP dataset and merged them with the images from
the KOMATSUNA dataset. The remaining 20% of the source domain is used for
validation. With this setting, we trained our model for 150 epochs. Finally, we
evaluated performance on the images from the KOMATSUNA dataset.
In the second experiment, we used the MSU-PID dataset as the target domain.
The data from the source domain was partitioned into training and validation
sets in a similar procedure as experiment 1. The model was evaluated using the
MSU-PID dataset.
                                    Domain Adaptation for Organ Counting          11

In the final experiment, we aimed to verify that our domain adaptation scheme
is independent of the leaf count distributions in the source domain. To test this,
we took the model trained in the first experiment and evaluated it on composite
images created from KOMATSUNA containing multiple plants. The composite
images are generated by randomly selecting four images from the KOMATSUNA
dataset and stitching them together form a 2 × 2 grid.


5     Results

In this section, we present the performance of the proposed model on two count-
ing tasks. We also compare these results with the baseline model and with other
existing methods, where possible.


      Table 1. Domain adaptation results for the wheat spikelet counting tasks.

                                               M AE     RM SE     R2
                ACID to GWHD
                Baseline (No Adaptation)       91.65    114.4    0.005
                Our method                     29.48    35.80     0.66
                ACID to CropQuant
                Baseline (No Adaptation)       443.61   547.98   -1.70
                SpikeletFCN [2] (Scratch)      498.0    543.5       -
                SpikeletFCN [2] (Fine-tuned)   77.12    107.1       -
                Our method                     180.69   230.12    0.43




5.1   Wheat Spikelet Counting

Table 1 summarizes the results from the wheat spikelet counting adaptation
experiment. Figure 4 provides a qualitative comparison of example density maps
output by the baseline model and by the proposed model.
ACID to GWHD: On the GWHD, our method reduced the MAE by 67.8% and
the RMSE by 68.7% as compared to the baseline model without adaptation. The
proposed method also achieved an R2 value of 0.66 on the target domain.
ACID to CropQuant: On patches extracted from the CropQuant dataset, our
method reduced the MAE by 59.3% and the RMSE by 58.0% as compared to
the baseline model. The proposed method was also compared to two supervised
methods from [2]. One was trained solely on the target domain (from scratch),
and the other was pre-trained on the ACID dataset and fine-tuned on the target
domain (fine-tuned). Our model outperformed the SpikeletFCN trained from
12      T. Ayalew et al.

scratch by 63.72%, while the fine-tuned SpikeletFCN model provides better per-
formance than the proposed method. However, both of the reference methods
require annotated datasets in the target domain while ours does not.


       (a) Input             (b) GT            (c) Baseline          (d) Ours




Fig. 4. Qualitative results for density map estimation. The first two rows are sampled
from the Global Wheat Head Dataset and the last two are 512 × 512 patches extracted
from CropQuant dataset (a) Input images. (b) Ground truth. (c) Predicted density
map from the baseline model. (d) Predicted density map from the proposed model.




5.2   Leaf Counting

Figure 5 provides sample images taken from the KOMOTSUNA and MSU-PID
datasets and shows that the proposed method accurately produces hot spots in
the density map at the center of each leaf.
                                    Domain Adaptation for Organ Counting          13




         (a) Input                   (b) Baseline                  (c) Ours




Fig. 5. Sample input images (left) and density map estimations generated from the
baseline model (middle) and from the adapted model (right) in the leaf counting task.
Top row: CVPPP to KOMATSUNA experiment. Bottom row: CVPPP to MSU-
PID experiment.
14      T. Ayalew et al.

Table 2. Domain adaptation results for the leaf counting tasks. XE is cross-entropy
loss, LS is least-squares loss, ↓ denotes lower is better, ↑ denotes higher is better.

                                         DiC ↓         |DiC| ↓    %↑      M SE ↓
      CVPPP to KOMATSUNA
        Baseline (No Adaptation)        4.09 (1.32)   4.09 (1.32)   0     18.49
        Giuffrida, et al. [15] (XE)    -0.78 (1.12)   1.04 (0.87)  26      1.84
        Giuffrida, et al. [15] (LS)    -3.72 (1.93)   3.72 (1.93)   2      17.5
               Our method              -0.95 (2.09)   1.56 (1.67) 29.33    5.26
         CVPPP to MSU-PID
        Baseline (No Adaptation)        1.21 (2.04)   1.83 (1.52)   0      5.65
        Giuffrida, et al. [15] (XE)    -0.81 (2.03)   1.68 (1.39)  20      4.78
        Giuffrida, et al. [15] (LS)    -0.39 (1.49)   1.18 (0.98)  26      2.36
               Our method               1.17 (1.85)   1.63 (1.62) 23.96    4.25



CVPPP to KOMATSUNA: We report results from the baseline model trained
without adaptation, a previously proposed domain adaptation method [15], and
the proposed method (Table 2). The adapted model resulted in a 71.6% drop in
MSE, while the percentage agreement increased from 0% to 29.33%. Addition-
ally, we compared the proposed approach with a previous domain adaptation
technique proposed by [15]. Our method outperformed the previous result when
using the least-squares adversarial loss (LS), and achieves similar performance
when using the cross-entropy loss (XE).




Fig. 6. Sample composite image with multiple plants (left) and density map estimation
(right) generated from the model trained to adapt leaf counting using domain and
target datasets with one plant per image.
                                    Domain Adaptation for Organ Counting         15

CVPPP to MSU-PID: On the MSU-PID dataset, our method outperformed
the no-adaptation baseline model in all metrics (Table 2). The proposed model
provided a 23.9% increase in percentage agreement and a 10.93% decrease in
|DiC|. The proposed method outperformed the previous domain adaptation
technique in this task when using the least-squares (LS) loss function, but under-
performed it when using the cross-entropy (XE) loss.

Composite-KOMATSUNA: Applying the model from CVPPP to KOMAT-
SUNA to composite images of multiple plants without retraining resulted in a
mean DiC of 9.89 and mean |DiC| of 9.90. Figure 6 shows a sample output from
our model on the composite dataset. These results show that our model does
not rely on assumptions about the distribution of object counts in the source
domain, whereas previous work [15] used a KL divergence loss between the dis-
tribution of leaf counts in the source domain and the predictions of their model
to avoid posterior collapse.



6   Summary


In this paper, we attempted to address performance problems that arise in image-
based plant phenotyping due to domain shift. Our study focused specifically on
density estimation based object counting, which is a common method for plant
organ counting. We proposed a custom Domain-Adversarial Neural Network ar-
chitecture and trained it using the unsupervised domain adaptation technique
for density estimation based organ counting. Our evaluation showed performance
improvements compared to baseline models trained without domain adaptation
for both wheat spikelet and leaf counting. For leaf counting, our results show sim-
ilar performance to a previously proposed domain adaptation approach without
the need to manually select a loss function for each dataset. This study is also the
first to investigate the use of domain adaptation from an indoor source dataset
to an outdoor target dataset. This may be a viable method for many plant
phenotyping contexts, such as plant breeding experiments with both controlled
environment and field trials. We plan to confirm this indoor-to-outdoor adapta-
tion approach through additional testing with different plant species, different
organ counting tasks, and additional field conditions, as future work.



7   Acknowledgement


This research was undertaken thanks in part to funding from the Canada First
Research Excellence Fund.
16      T. Ayalew et al.

References
 1. Aich, S., Stavness, I.: Leaf counting with deep convolutional and deconvolutional
    networks. In: IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision Workshops (IC-
    CVW). pp. 2080–2089 (2017)
 2. Alkhudaydi, T., Zhou, J., De La Iglesia, B.: Spikeletfcn: Counting spikelets from
    infield wheat crop images using fully convolutional networks. In: International Con-
    ference on Artificial Intelligence and Soft Computing. pp. 3–13. Springer (2019)
 3. Aslahishahri, M., Paul, T., Stanley, K.G., Shirtliffe, S., Vail, S., Stavness, I.: Kl-
    divergence as a proxy for plant growth. In: IEEE Information Technology, Elec-
    tronics and Mobile Communication Conference (IEMCON). pp. 120–126 (2019)
 4. Bellocchio, E., Costante, G., Cascianelli, S., Fravolini, M.L., Valigi, P.: Combining
    domain adaptation and spatial consistency for unseen fruits counting: a quasi-
    unsupervised approach. IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters 5(2), 1079–1086
    (2020)
 5. Bousmalis, K., Silberman, N., Dohan, D., Erhan, D., Krishnan, D.: Unsupervised
    pixel-level domain adaptation with generative adversarial networks. In: IEEE Con-
    ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). pp. 3722–3731
    (2017)
 6. Cruz, J.A., Yin, X., Liu, X., Imran, S.M., Morris, D.D., Kramer, D.M., Chen,
    J.: Multi-modality imagery database for plant phenotyping. Machine Vision and
    Applications 27(5), 735–749 (2016)
 7. David, E., Madec, S., Sadeghi-Tehran, P., Aasen, H., Zheng, B., Liu, S., Kirchgess-
    ner, N., Ishikawa, G., Nagasawa, K., Badhon, M.A., Pozniak, C., de Solan, B.,
    Hund, A., Chapman, S.C., Baret, F., Stavness, I., Guo, W.: Global wheat head de-
    tection (gwhd) dataset: a large and diverse dataset of high resolution rgb labelled
    images to develop and benchmark wheat head detection methods. Plant Phenomics
    in press (2020)
 8. Dobrescu, A., Valerio Giuffrida, M., Tsaftaris, S.A.: Leveraging multiple datasets
    for deep leaf counting. In: IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision
    Workshops (ICCVW). pp. 2072–2079 (2017)
 9. Ganin, Y., Lempitsky, V.: Unsupervised domain adaptation by backpropagation.
    In: International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML). pp. 1180–1189 (2015)
10. Ganin, Y., Ustinova, E., Ajakan, H., Germain, P., Larochelle, H., Laviolette, F.,
    Marchand, M., Lempitsky, V.: Domain-adversarial training of neural networks. The
    Journal of Machine Learning Research 17(1), 2096–2030 (2016)
11. Gao, G., Gao, J., Liu, Q., Wang, Q., Wang, Y.: Cnn-based density estimation and
    crowd counting: A survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.12783 (2020)
12. Ghosal, S., Zheng, B., Chapman, S.C., Potgieter, A.B., Jordan, D.R., Wang, X.,
    Singh, A.K., Singh, A., Hirafuji, M., Ninomiya, S., et al.: A weakly supervised deep
    learning framework for sorghum head detection and counting. Plant Phenomics
    2019, 1525874 (2019)
13. Gibbs, J.A., Burgess, A.J., Pound, M.P., Pridmore, T.P., Murchie, E.H.: Recover-
    ing wind-induced plant motion in dense field environments via deep learning and
    multiple object tracking. Plant Physiology 181(1), 28–42 (2019)
14. Giuffrida, M.V., Chen, F., Scharr, H., Tsaftaris, S.A.: Citizen crowds and experts:
    observer variability in plant phenotyping. Plant Methods 14, 12 (2018)
15. Giuffrida, M.V., Dobrescu, A., Doerner, P., Tsaftaris, S.A.: Leaf counting without
    annotations using adversarial unsupervised domain adaptation. In: IEEE Confer-
    ence on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops. pp. 1–8 (2019)
                                      Domain Adaptation for Organ Counting           17

16. Giuffrida, M.V., Doerner, P., Tsaftaris, S.A.: Pheno-deep counter: a unified and
    versatile deep learning architecture for leaf counting. The Plant Journal 96(4),
    880–890 (2018)
17. Hu, J., Lu, J., Tan, Y.P.: Deep transfer metric learning. In: IEEE conference on
    computer vision and pattern recognition. pp. 325–333 (2015)
18. Itzhaky, Y., Farjon, G., Khoroshevsky, F., Shpigler, A., Bar-Hillel, A.: Leaf count-
    ing: Multiple scale regression and detection using deep cnns. In: British Machine
    Vision Conference Workshops (BMVCW). p. 328 (2018)
19. Kuznichov, D., Zvirin, A., Honen, Y., Kimmel, R.: Data augmentation for leaf seg-
    mentation and counting tasks in rosette plants. In: IEEE Conference on Computer
    Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops. pp. 0–0 (2019)
20. Leibe, B., Seemann, E., Schiele, B.: Pedestrian detection in crowded scenes. In:
    IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). vol. 1,
    pp. 878–885 (2005)
21. Lempitsky, V., Zisserman, A.: Learning to count objects in images. In: Advances
    in Neural Information Processing Systems. pp. 1324–1332 (2010)
22. Li, M., Zhang, Z., Huang, K., Tan, T.: Estimating the number of people in crowded
    scenes by mid based foreground segmentation and head-shoulder detection. In:
    IEEE International Conference on Pattern Recognition (CVPR). pp. 1–4 (2008)
23. Lin, P., Chen, Y.: Detection of strawberry flowers in outdoor field by deep neu-
    ral network. In: IEEE International Conference on Image, Vision and Computing
    (ICIVC). pp. 482–486 (2018)
24. Liu, M., Jiang, J., Guo, Z., Wang, Z., Liu, Y.: Crowd counting with fully convo-
    lutional neural network. In: IEEE International Conference on Image Processing
    (ICIP). pp. 953–957. IEEE (2018)
25. Liu, M.Y., Tuzel, O.: Coupled generative adversarial networks. In: Advances in
    Neural Information Processing Systems. pp. 469–477 (2016)
26. Long, M., Zhu, H., Wang, J., Jordan, M.I.: Deep transfer learning with joint adap-
    tation networks. In: International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML). pp.
    2208–2217 (2017)
27. Lu, H., Cao, Z., Xiao, Y., Zhuang, B., Shen, C.: Tasselnet: counting maize tassels
    in the wild via local counts regression network. Plant Methods 13, 79 (2017)
28. Madec, S., Jin, X., Lu, H., De Solan, B., Liu, S., Duyme, F., Heritier, E., Baret,
    F.: Ear density estimation from high resolution rgb imagery using deep learning
    technique. Agricultural and Forest Meteorology 264, 225–234 (2019)
29. Minervini, M., Fischbach, A., Scharr, H., Tsaftaris, S.: Plant phenotyping datasets
    (2015), http://www.plant-phenotyping.org/datasets
30. Minervini, M., Fischbach, A., Scharr, H., Tsaftaris, S.A.: Finely-grained an-
    notated datasets for image-based plant phenotyping. Pattern Recognition Let-
    ters pp. – (2015). https://doi.org/http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.patrec.2015.10.013,
    http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167865515003645
31. Olmschenk, G., Tang, H., Zhu, Z.: Crowd counting with minimal data using gen-
    erative adversarial networks for multiple target regression. In: IEEE Winter Con-
    ference on Applications of Computer Vision (WACV). pp. 1151–1159 (2018)
32. Paul Cohen, J., Boucher, G., Glastonbury, C.A., Lo, H.Z., Bengio, Y.: Count-
    ception: Counting by fully convolutional redundant counting. In: IEEE Interna-
    tional Conference on Computer Vision Workshops. pp. 18–26 (2017)
33. Pound, M.P., Atkinson, J.A., Wells, D.M., Pridmore, T.P., French, A.P.: Deep
    learning for multi-task plant phenotyping. In: IEEE International Conference on
    Computer Vision Workshops (ICCVW). pp. 2055–2063 (2017)
18      T. Ayalew et al.

34. Ranjan, V., Le, H., Hoai, M.: Iterative crowd counting. In: European Conference
    on Computer Vision (ECCV). pp. 270–285 (2018)
35. Ronneberger, O., Fischer, P., Brox, T.: U-net: Convolutional networks for biomedi-
    cal image segmentation. In: International Conference on Medical Image Computing
    and Computer-Assisted Intervention (MICCAI). pp. 234–241. Springer (2015)
36. Sindagi, V.A., Patel, V.M.: A survey of recent advances in cnn-based single image
    crowd counting and density estimation. Pattern Recognition Letters 107, 3–16
    (2018)
37. Tayara, H., Soo, K.G., Chong, K.T.: Vehicle detection and counting in high-
    resolution aerial images using convolutional regression neural network. IEEE Ac-
    cess 6, 2220–2230 (2017)
38. Tzeng, E., Hoffman, J., Darrell, T., Saenko, K.: Simultaneous deep transfer across
    domains and tasks. In: IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision. pp.
    4068–4076 (2015)
39. Tzeng, E., Hoffman, J., Saenko, K., Darrell, T.: Adversarial discriminative domain
    adaptation. In: IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
    (CVPR). pp. 7167–7176 (2017)
40. Ubbens, J.R., Stavness, I.: Deep plant phenomics: a deep learning platform for
    complex plant phenotyping tasks. Frontiers in Plant Science 8, 1190 (2017)
41. Uchiyama, H., Sakurai, S., Mishima, M., Arita, D., Okayasu, T., Shimada, A.,
    Taniguchi, R.i.: An easy-to-setup 3d phenotyping platform for komatsuna dataset.
    In: IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision Workshops. pp. 2038–2045
    (2017)
42. Wang, C., Zhang, H., Yang, L., Liu, S., Cao, X.: Deep people counting in extremely
    dense crowds. In: ACM International Conference on Multimedia. pp. 1299–1302
    (2015)
43. Wang, M., Deng, W.: Deep visual domain adaptation: A survey. Neurocomputing
    312, 135–153 (2018)
44. Xie, W., Noble, J.A., Zisserman, A.: Microscopy cell counting and detection with
    fully convolutional regression networks. Computer Methods in Biomechanics and
    Biomedical Engineering: Imaging & Visualization 6(3), 283–292 (2018)
45. Zhang, C., Craine, W.A., McGee, R.J., Vandemark, G.J., Davis, J.B., Brown, J.,
    Hulbert, S.H., Sankaran, S.: Image-based phenotyping of flowering intensity in
    cool-season crops. Sensors 20(5), 1450 (2020)
46. Zhang, S., Wu, G., Costeira, J.P., Moura, J.M.: Fcn-rlstm: Deep spatio-temporal
    neural networks for vehicle counting in city cameras. In: IEEE International Con-
    ference on Computer Vision (ICCV). pp. 3667–3676 (2017)
47. Zhou, J., Reynolds, D., Cornu, T.L., Websdale, D., Orford, S., Lister, C., Gonzalez-
    Navarro, O., Laycock, S., Finlayson, G., Stitt, T., Clark, M.D., Bevan, M.W.,
    Griffiths, S.: Cropquant: An automated and scalable field phenotyping platform
    for crop monitoring and trait measurements to facilitate breeding and digital agri-
    culture. bioRxiv (2017). https://doi.org/10.1101/161547
48. Zhou, N., Siegel, Z.D., Zarecor, S., Lee, N., Campbell, D.A., Andorf, C.M., Net-
    tleton, D., Lawrence-Dill, C.J., Ganapathysubramanian, B., Kelly, J.W., et al.:
    Crowdsourcing image analysis for plant phenomics to generate ground truth data
    for machine learning. PLOS Computational Biology 14(7), e1006337 (2018)
49. Zhu, R., Sui, D., Qin, H., Hao, A.: An extended type cell detection and counting
    method based on fcn. In: IEEE International Conference on Bioinformatics and
    Bioengineering (BIBE). pp. 51–56 (2017)
