Article

Real-Field-Ready and Digitally Sustainable Plant Disease
Recognition via Federated Multimodal Edge Learning and
Few-Shot Domain Adaptation
Muhammad Irfan Sharif 1 , Yong Zhong 1, * , Muhammad Zaheer Sajid 2                              and Francesco Marinello 3

                                         1   Shien-Ming Wu School of Intelligent Engineering, South China University of Technology,
                                             Guangzhou 510641, China; muhammadirfan@scut.edu.cn
                                         2   Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA 22030, USA
                                         3   Department of Land Environment Agriculture and Forestry, University of Padua, 35020 Legnaro, Italy
                                         *   Correspondence: zhongyong@scut.edu.cn


                                         Abstract
                                         Plant disease diagnosis in real-world agricultural environments is challenged by data
                                         scarcity, domain shift, privacy constraints, and limited edge-device resources. This paper
                                         proposes FMEL-FSDA, a Federated Multimodal Edge Learning framework with Few-
                                         Shot Domain Adaptation for robust field-based plant disease recognition. The framework
                                         integrates attention-based RGB–text feature fusion, privacy-preserving federated learning,
                                         rapid few-shot personalization, and uncertainty-aware inference within an edge-efficient
                                         architecture. Federated training enables collaborative learning across distributed farms
                                         without sharing raw data, while few-shot adaptation allows fast deployment to new
                                         regions using only 1–10 labeled samples per class. Experiments on the PlantWild in-
                                         the-wild dataset show that FMEL-FSDA outperforms centralized, federated, and few-
                                         shot baselines, achieving 93.78% accuracy, 93.33% F1-score, and 0.97 AUC. The model
                                         maintains strong performance under privacy mechanisms such as gradient perturbation
                                         and secure aggregation, reduces communication overhead by up to 4×, and supports low-
                                         latency edge inference. Uncertainty estimation and Grad-CAM-based explainability further
                                         enhance reliability by identifying low-confidence cases and highlighting disease-relevant
                                         regions. Overall, FMEL-FSDA offers a scalable, privacy-aware, and field-ready solution for
                                         intelligent plant disease diagnosis in precision agriculture.

                                         Keywords: plant disease diagnosis; federated learning; multimodal learning; few-shot
                                         domain adaptation; edge computing; precision agriculture; uncertainty quantification;
                                         explainable AI



Academic Editors: Jakub Frankowski
and Maciej Zaborowicz                    1. Introduction
Received: 25 February 2026                    Plant diseases are a major threat to global agriculture and food security. According
Revised: 13 April 2026                   to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), nearly 40% of crop production is lost
Accepted: 14 April 2026                  each year due to plant pests and diseases, causing economic losses of more than USD
Published: 22 April 2026
                                         220 billion [1]. These problems strongly affect developing countries, where around 638 to
Copyright: © 2026 by the authors.
                                         720 million people were facing hunger in 2024, making agricultural loss directly related
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
                                         to the basic human right of food [2]. Due to climate change and international trade, plant
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
                                         disease outbreaks are increasing, creating a strong need for fast, accurate, and scalable
conditions of the Creative Commons       disease detection systems for diverse agricultural environments [3].
Attribution (CC BY) license.




Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                              https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                              2 of 28



                                 Manual diagnosis methods, including visual inspection or lab experiments, incur more
                            expense and labor, and are generally difficult to apply in remote rural areas [4]. Given
                            that most farmers own smartphones and have adopted IoT devices, automatic disease
                            detection at the field level is now possible [5]. A great deal of research has demonstrated
                            the effectiveness of deep learning models, such as CNNs and ViTs, for classifying plant
                            diseases, with some achieving over 99% accuracy on datasets like PlantVillage [6,7]. Despite
                            promising classification accuracy, several challenges still exist for deployment of models in
                            real world conditions.
                                 Firstly, domain shift remains the challenge. A model trained on a lab dataset with
                            a clean background and consistent lighting is likely to perform poorly on a field dataset,
                            where backgrounds are often complex, and lighting varies. Disease appearance is more
                            complex and unstable. Hence, the accuracy can drop to 70–85% on a field dataset, com-
                            pared to 95–99% on a lab dataset. Secondly, data collection and privacy constraints are
                            limiting the training of robust, transferable models. Building large disease datasets across
                            regions, crop types, and environmental conditions requires substantial time, cost, and ex-
                            pert annotation. In addition, many farmers and agricultural organizations are unwilling
                            to share data because of privacy, ownership, and business concerns. Third, edge devices
                            have limited computational resources, which makes deployment of complex deep learning
                            models difficult in agricultural fields. Devices such as smartphones, Raspberry Pi, and agri-
                            cultural sensors have limited memory, processing power, and battery capacity. Fourth,
                            plant disease analysis may involve multiple modalities, including RGB, multispectral,
                            hyperspectral, and environmental sensor data. Effectively combining such data remains
                            challenging, especially under limited computational resources. In this work, we focus
                            on RGB images and textual disease descriptions, where text is used as a complementary
                            modality. The framework is modular and can support additional sensing modalities in
                            future deployments.
                                 Federated learning (FL) provides a useful solution for privacy-preserving distributed
                            training by keeping raw data on local devices and sending only model updates to the central
                            server. However, most FL methods assume independent and identically distributed (IID)
                            client data, which is unrealistic in agriculture because regions differ in climate, soil, crop
                            type, and disease pattern. As a result, agricultural data are highly non-IID. Few-shot learn-
                            ing and domain adaptation further help models learn from limited labeled data and adapt
                            to new environments with minimal supervision. Meta-learning methods such as MAML
                            support fast adaptation to new classification tasks using only a few training samples.
                                 Although many methods exist for federated learning, multimodal learning, few-shot
                            learning, and edge deployment, no single framework effectively combines these capabilities
                            in one system. Most existing approaches address only one challenge at a time. Some achieve
                            high accuracy but require heavy computation, some preserve privacy but cannot handle
                            domain variation, and others are efficient but generalize poorly. Therefore, there is a strong
                            need for an integrated framework. This study addresses that need by proposing a system
                            that combines federated learning, multimodal data, few-shot domain adaptation, and edge-
                            based inference for real-time, privacy-preserving, and adaptable plant disease detection
                            across agricultural environments.

                            Research Contributions
                                 Unlike existing plant disease detection frameworks that typically address federated
                            learning, multimodal fusion, few-shot learning, or edge deployment in isolation, the pro-
                            posed FMEL-FSDA framework provides a unified solution that jointly tackles these chal-
                            lenges in a real-world agricultural setting.
                                 The main contributions of this work are summarized as follows:



                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                             3 of 28



                            1.   Unified Federated Multimodal Learning Framework: We propose the first inte-
                                 grated framework that combines federated learning, multimodal RGB–text fusion,
                                 and edge-aware deployment within a single pipeline. In contrast to prior works that
                                 rely on single-modality RGB inputs or centralized training, our approach enables
                                 privacy-preserving collaborative learning while leveraging complementary semantic
                                 information from textual descriptions.
                            2.   Federated Learning with Non-IID and Edge Constraints: Unlike conventional
                                 federated learning methods that assume IID data or ignore deployment limitations,
                                 we design a hierarchical federated optimization strategy with adaptive aggregation,
                                 update compression, and secure aggregation. This allows robust learning under highly
                                 heterogeneous (non-IID) agricultural data distributions and bandwidth-constrained
                                 edge environments.
                            3.   Few-Shot Domain Adaptation in Federated Settings: Existing few-shot and meta-
                                 learning approaches are primarily developed for centralized settings. We introduce a
                                 novel integration of meta-learning-based few-shot adaptation within a federated archi-
                                 tecture, enabling rapid personalization to new regions, crops, and disease conditions
                                 using only 1–10 labeled samples per class.
                            4.   Edge-Optimized Multimodal Architecture: We develop a lightweight and modular
                                 neural architecture that efficiently processes visual and textual inputs for real-time
                                 inference on edge devices. Unlike heavy transformer based models, the proposed
                                 design gives a balance between classification accuracy and computational efficiency.
                                 Therefore, it is suitable for practical agricultural deployment.
                            5.   Privacy-Preserving and Uncertainty-Aware Inference: The framework incorporates
                                 differential privacy mechanism and secure aggregation for protection of sensitive
                                 agricultural data. In addition, uncertainty estimation and Grad-CAM based explain-
                                 ability are employed for improving the reliability of the system by identification of
                                 low confidence predictions and disease affected regions.
                            6.   Comprehensive Real-World Evaluation: Extensive experiments are conducted
                                 on PlantWild dataset. The results show that the proposed framework outperforms
                                 centralized, federated, and few-shot baseline methods on multiple evaluation metrics.
                                 In addition, the proposed framework maintains better performance under privacy
                                 constraints and limited data conditions.

                            2. Related Work
                                 This section presents a detailed review of existing research works. The literature is
                            divided into six major areas. These areas include deep learning for plant disease detection,
                            federated learning for agriculture applications, few-shot and meta-learning methods, do-
                            main adaptation for image recognition, multimodal data fusion, and edge computing for
                            agricultural IoT systems. All these research areas are linked with the proposed system.

                            2.1. Deep Learning for Plant Disease Detection
                                 Deep learning is widely used for plant disease detection because it can automatically
                            extract image features, unlike earlier methods that required manual feature engineering [8].
                            CNN-based models are the most common and have achieved very high accuracy. Mo-
                            hanty et al. [6] used GoogLeNet and AlexNet on the PlantVillage dataset and reported
                            99.35% accuracy. PlantVillage, which contains 54,305 images from 14 crop types and
                            38 classes, remains a standard benchmark for plant disease evaluation [9]. More sophis-
                            ticated CNN models achieve even better performance. Ferentinos [10] compared VGG,
                            ResNet, and Inception, reaching 99.53% accuracy with VGG. Too et al. [11] claimed 99.75%
                            accuracy by DenseNet, which was then outshined by 99.97% accuracy on EfficientNet [12].



                                                                                  https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                              4 of 28



                            Although the performance of those models on a laboratory scale is high enough, their
                            accuracy usually degrades on a real field scale due to domain shift [13]. ViTs have been
                            used to handle the task, as they capture global relations in images via attention [14].
                            Borhani et al. [15] propose a lightweight ViT model that achieves better accuracy but at
                            the cost of lower speed. Yu et al. [16] combined CNN and transformer features to gain
                            performance, and the PDLC-ViT achieve 99.97% on PlantVillage using co-scale, co-attention,
                            and cross-attention [17]. Nevertheless, ViTs require too many computational resources and
                            are better suited for cloud use [18]. Lightweight models are important for mobile and
                            edge-based diagnosis. MobileNet models are widely used because of their efficiency [19].
                            Ashwinkumar et al. [20] proposed an optimized MobileNet model with 98.34% accuracy
                            for smartphone deployment. MobileNetV3 has about 1.5 million parameters [21], and RTR-
                            Lite-MobileNetV2 further improved lightweight recognition using Squeeze-and-Excitation
                            and Triplet Attention [22]. Object detection models are also used to localize disease re-
                            gions in plant images. YOLO-based methods support real-time disease detection and
                            localization [23], and Fuentes et al. [24] developed a tomato disease and pest detection
                            system using multiple detection networks and data augmentation for precision agriculture.

                            2.2. Federated Learning in Agricultural Applications
                                   Federated learning supports collaborative model training across multiple clients with-
                            out sharing raw data which is important for privacy and data ownership in agriculture [25].
                            McMahan et al. [26] introduced Federated Averaging (FedAvg), where clients train locally
                            and send updates to a central server for aggregation which reduces communication cost
                            and maintains good convergence under IID settings. Its use in plant disease detection is
                            still limited and interest is growing. Kabala et al. [27] applied federated learning with CNN
                            and Vision Transformer models to crop disease detection on PlantVillage and showed that
                            it can preserve privacy and achieve good accuracy but transformer models require high
                            computational resources. Hari et al. [28] proposed a federated framework with hierarchical
                            aggregation across region-based local models and this reduces computation cost compared
                            with centralized training. Recent studies have addressed practical federated learning chal-
                            lenges in agriculture. A multisite crop disease study [29] proposed adaptive aggregation to
                            handle farm-level heterogeneity and reported 83.24% accuracy for rice disease detection.
                            To reduce the network resources required to transmit image data, MobileNet was applied
                            in a federated edge scenario in which farmers trained models without sending their images
                            to a central server [30]. Other methods have used differential privacy and homomorphic
                            encryption to enhance data security [31]. A common difficulty is non-IID data, as differ-
                            ent regions have different weather, soil, cultivation practices, and disease patterns [32].
                            Zhao et al. [33] showed that FedAvg degrades under highly imbalanced label distributions.
                            To address this, personalized federated learning methods keep some components local
                            while sharing common representations [34]. FedProto [35] used prototype-based learning
                            for heterogeneous clients, and FedPer [36] kept personalized layers local while sharing
                            base layers. Clustering-based methods such as hierarchical clustering [37], FedGroup [38],
                            and CFL [39] have also been proposed to improve aggregation in non-IID settings.

                            2.3. Few-Shot Learning and Meta-Learning
                                 Few-shot learning is useful when only limited labeled data are available, which is
                            common in agriculture because collecting and annotating plant disease samples is costly
                            and time consuming [40]. In N-way K-shot learning, the model is trained to classify N
                            classes using only K labeled samples per class in each episode [41]. Meta-learning is widely
                            used in this setting because it helps the model learn how to adapt across tasks. Model-
                            Agnostic Meta-Learning (MAML), proposed by Finn et al. [31], learns an initialization



                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                             5 of 28



                            that can quickly adapt to new tasks with only a few gradient updates. However, MAML
                            works well but has some drawbacks for plant disease classification; for example, it takes
                            too much time and is difficult to tune hyperparameters, since second-order gradients
                            are used [42]. To address these issues, hybrid methods such as Mix-MAML have been
                            proposed, which use data augmentation, initialization attenuation, and resolution increase
                            to improve performance [43]. Metric learning is another common few-shot approach.
                            Prototypical Networks [44] represent each class by its average feature prototype and
                            classify a query sample based on its distance to these prototypes. This approach has
                            shown good performance in plant disease classification. Mu et al. [45] proposed a few-shot
                            disease recognition method based on supervised contrastive learning and achieved 79.51%
                            accuracy on potato disease recognition using only 30 training images. Rezaei et al. [46]
                            proposed the PMF+FA method, which combines pre-training, meta-learning, and fine-
                            tuning with a feature attention module, and reported 90.12% accuracy on the PlantDoc
                            dataset using a Vision Transformer. Cross-domain few-shot learning is more challenging
                            because training and testing samples come from different environments. Yang et al. [47]
                            showed that models trained on laboratory datasets such as PlantVillage perform poorly
                            on real field images and proposed a method to improve generalization through inter-
                            domain correlations. The DExNet framework [48] used multiple expert networks with
                            domain-specific knowledge to improve leaf disease classification when data are limited.
                            Recently, few-shot learning has also been combined with generative models. Diffusion
                            models are used to generate additional disease samples for low-data settings [49], which
                            is useful for rare disease detection. A comparative study in [50] evaluated different few-
                            shot learning losses, including Contrastive, Triplet, CosFace, and ArcFace, with multiple
                            backbone networks, and showed that cosine-based methods perform better than Siamese
                            networks for plant disease classification.

                            2.4. Domain Adaptation for Visual Recognition
                                  Domain adaptation transfers knowledge from one domain to another when their data
                            distributions differ. Usually, the source domain has labeled data, while the target domain
                            has little or no labeled data [51]. Domain adaptation helps models trained on lab images
                            work better on field images and reduces the need for large labeled field datasets. Unsu-
                            pervised domain adaptation (UDA) is useful for plant disease recognition. Wu et al. [13]
                            proposed the Multirepresentation Subdomain Adaptation Network with Uncertainty Reg-
                            ularization (MSUN), which uses multirepresentation learning to capture global and fine
                            details and subdomain adaptation to handle high inter-class similarity and uncertainty
                            regularization to reduce transfer error. MSUN showed strong performance for plant disease
                            recognition using unlabeled data; it does not use adversarial training. Transformer-based
                            domain adaptation has also been explored for better feature learning, and researchers [52]
                            proposed a framework that combines Mobile Vision Transformer (MViT) with CNN. The
                            CNN extracts local features and the transformer captures global information. Wasserstein
                            distance is used for domain adaptation. This method improved performance by 13.67%
                            over previous methods. In cross-domain experiments, PlantVillage-to-PlantDoc transfer
                            achieved 68% accuracy and outperformed InceptionV3 and EfficientNet models [53]. Trans-
                            fer learning is a simple and effective strategy for adapting pre-trained models to plant
                            disease classification. Shafik et al. [54] proposed the PDDNet model that uses multiple pre-
                            trained CNNs and deep feature extraction. Recent studies have also used memory-based
                            networks and meta learning methods to improve generalization to new disease types and
                            plant species [55]. Self-training and pseudo-labeling are semi-supervised approaches for
                            domain adaptation. In these methods, a source-trained model generates pseudo-labels for
                            target-domain samples, and the model is then retrained using both source and pseudo-



                                                                                  https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                              6 of 28



                            labeled target data [56]. However, incorrect pseudo-labels can reduce performance, so
                            confidence thresholding and uncertainty estimation are often used to improve reliability.

                            2.5. Multimodal Data Fusion for Plant Health Assessment
                                 Plant health assessment increasingly uses multiple data modalities because they cap-
                            ture complementary aspects of plant physiology and disease symptoms [57]. RGB images
                            capture visible symptoms such as lesions, discoloration, and morphological changes, while
                            hyperspectral imaging can detect physiological changes before visible symptoms appear
                            by using a wide spectral range [58]. In addition to multispectral imaging and environ-
                            mental sensors, including temperature, humidity, and soil moisture, useful information
                            can be derived for disease analysis. Existing deep learning methods for multispectral and
                            multimodal plant disease diagnosis also demonstrated promising performance. Nagasub-
                            ramanian et al. [59] applied a 3D CNN to hyperspectral data, obtaining an accuracy of
                            95.73% in classifying the charcoal rot disease in soybean. RustQNet [60] combined RGB,
                            multispectral, and vegetation index data for quantitative analysis of wheat stripe rust
                            disease. Different fusion strategies are used to combine multiple modalities. Early fusion
                            learns cross-modal relationships from joint features [61] and late fusion combines modality-
                            specific predictions or high-level features [62]. Attention-based fusion improves flexibility
                            by dynamically weighting multimodal information [63]. The choice of fusion strategy
                            depends on modeling capacity, computational cost, and robustness to missing modalities.
                            A major challenge in multimodal learning is data registration and alignment. Henke et al.
                            showed pixel-level registration of RGB hyperspectral and chlorophyll fluorescence images
                            for phenotyping [64]. Such alignment is computationally expensive for real-time edge
                            deployment. Recent work has explored multimodal large language models for plant dis-
                            ease detection [65]—their high computational cost limits practical edge use. Therefore,
                            lightweight multimodal architectures are still needed for real-time field deployment.

                            2.6. Edge Computing and IoT for Agricultural Applications
                                  Edge computing enables real-time processing of agricultural data by performing in-
                            ference locally on field devices and this reduces latency and dependence on continuous
                            cloud connectivity [66]. This is especially useful in agricultural areas that have limited or
                            unreliable internet access. Lightweight neural networks are central to edge-based plant
                            disease detection and MobileNetV3 that has about 1.5 million parameters is widely used on
                            smartphones and embedded devices [21]. Quantization reduces model size and increases
                            inference speed [67] and knowledge distillation helps train compact student models from
                            larger teacher models [68]. Tiny-LiteNet further showed that high-performance edge de-
                            ployment is possible, achieving 98.6% accuracy with only 0.72 MB model size and 80 ms
                            inference time on Raspberry Pi 5 [69]. IoT-based agricultural monitoring systems combine
                            sensing, edge processing, and cloud analytics. The CROPCARE system [70] demonstrated
                            real-time disease detection using Jetson Nano with RGB cameras and WiFi transmission.
                            Layered IoT architectures improve flexibility by separating data acquisition, edge pro-
                            cessing, and cloud analysis [71], while LoRaWAN-based systems support long-range,
                            low-power monitoring and achieve up to 89% disease recognition accuracy [72]. Energy
                            efficiency is also important for sustainable agricultural deployment. Solar-powered edge
                            nodes support remote monitoring [73], energy-aware scheduling balance accuracy and
                            power use [74], and predictive data reduction reduces communication cost by transmit-
                            ting only important changes [75]. Cloud-edge-device collaborative computing further
                            distributes tasks across infrastructure levels, while integrating federated learning with edge
                            computing improves privacy by keeping raw agricultural data on local devices [76,77].




                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                               7 of 28



                                   Table 1 summarizes the key previous studies related to this research. It highlights the
                              task focus, data modalities, deployment environments, use of federated learning, domain
                              adaptation or few-shot methods, datasets, and the main limitations of each study.

                              Table 1. Comparative Summary of Related Work on Plant Disease Detection Systems.

Reference                   Task        Modality    Deployment    FL     DA/FS     Dataset           Main Limitations
Mohanty et al. [6]          Class.      RGB         Cloud         No     No        PlantVillage      Lab conditions only;
                                                                                                     no field validation
Borhani et al. [15]         Class.      RGB         Cloud         No     No        PlantVillage      High ViT cost; limited
                                                                                                     edge use
Kabala et al. [27]          Class.      RGB         Dist.         Yes    No        PlantVillage      Limited non-IID han-
                                                                                                     dling; single modality
Hari et al. [28]            Class.      RGB         Dist.         Yes    No        PlantVillage      No domain adapta-
                                                                                                     tion; lab data
Wu et al. [13]              Class.      RGB         Cloud         No     DA        PlantVillage,     No FL; computational
                                                                                   PlantDoc          overhead
Mu et al. [45]              Class.      RGB         Cloud         No     FS        PlantVillage      Limited cross-domain
                                                                                                     eval.; no FL
Rezaei et al. [46]          Class.      RGB         Cloud         No     FS      PlantDoc            No edge deployment
Yang et al. [47]            Class.      RGB         Cloud         No     DA + FS PlantVillage,       No FL; privacy issues
                                                                                 Field
Nagasubramanian et al. [59] Class.      Hyper.      Lab           No     No      Custom              Expensive sensors; no
                                                                                                     FL/DA
Deng et al. [60]            Regr.       RGB + MS UAV              No     No        Wheat             No FL; domain-
                                                                                                     specific
Howard et al. [21]          Class.      RGB         Mobile        No     No      PlantVillage        Lab conditions only
Ahmed et al. [48]           Class.      RGB         Cloud         No     DA + FS Multiple            No FL; high cost
Stevens et al. [78]         Class.      RGB         Dist.         Yes    No      PlantVillage        No DA; limited edge
                                                                                                     support


                              2.7. Research Gaps and Motivation
                                    The literature review reveals several critical research gaps that motivate the proposed
                              framework.
                                    Gap 1: Lack of Integration. Existing approaches are work on federated learning,
                              few-shot learning, domain adaptation, and edge deployment separately. There is no single
                              framework which integrates all these techniques together for privacy-preserving, adaptable,
                              and efficient plant disease diagnosis.
                                    Gap 2: Domain Shift in Federated Settings. While federated learning is used to
                              solve privacy issues, most agricultural FL approaches assume that the data distribution is
                              similar. These methods do not handle the large domain shift between laboratory training
                              data and real-world field environments. As a result, the model performance can be affected
                              during field deployment.
                                    Gap 3: Multimodal Federated Learning. Despite the demonstrated value of multi-
                              modal data for plant health assessment, the existing federated learning frameworks for
                              plant disease detection are mainly dependent on RGB images only. Due to this, the impor-
                              tant information from environmental sensors and spectral imaging is not used, which can
                              help to improve the plant disease detection system.
                                    Gap 4: Few-Shot Adaptation in Federated Architectures. Current few-shot learning
                              methods for plant disease detection are mostly working in centralized systems. These
                              methods do not support the real field situation where fast adaptation is required for new
                              diseases or new regions. Also, these approaches are not suitable for privacy-preserving
                              federated learning environments where data cannot be shared centrally.




                                                                                    https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                               8 of 28



                                 Gap 5: Edge-Optimized Federated Systems. While lightweight models are developed
                            for edge deployment, their integration with a federated learning system is still limited.
                            The main issue is model update communication under bandwidth and resource constraints,
                            which is not properly explored in existing systems.
                                 To overcome these limitations, we propose the FMEL-FSDA framework. This frame-
                            work is an integrated system which combines federated learning, multimodal data fusion,
                            few-shot domain adaptation, and edge-based inference. This unified system provides
                            privacy-preserving, flexible, and efficient plant disease diagnosis. It is suitable for real-time
                            use in agricultural field environments.

                            3. Methodology
                                  The proposed Federated Multimodal Edge Learning framework with Few-Shot Do-
                            main Adaptation (FMEL-FSDA) is designed as an end-to-end, privacy-preserving, and field-
                            deployable system for real-time plant disease diagnosis. In this framework, multimodal in-
                            put consists of RGB images and corresponding textual disease descriptions available in the
                            PlantWild dataset. The textual descriptions provide complementary semantic information
                            regarding disease symptoms, severity, affected plant regions, and disease characteristics.
                            These textual inputs are encoded using a pre-trained MiniLM text encoder to generate
                            compact semantic embeddings, which are fused with visual features using attention-based
                            multimodal fusion. As illustrated in Figure 1, the workflow begins with multimodal data
                            acquisition at geographically distributed agricultural clients, where RGB images of crop
                            leaves are captured under natural field conditions along with their corresponding textual
                            disease descriptions. All inputs undergo standardized preprocessing, including color nor-
                            malization, contrast enhancement, resizing to 224 × 224, and statistical normalization for
                            images. Textual descriptions are processed using tokenization and embedded using the
                            MiniLM encoder to generate fixed-dimensional semantic feature representations, ensuring
                            consistency across heterogeneous data acquisition settings.
                                  The preprocessed RGB images are processed by a lightweight visual backbone based
                            on an enhanced MobileNetV3 architecture with squeeze-and-excitation attention which
                            extracts compact and discriminative spatial features suitable for edge deployment. In par-
                            allel, textual disease descriptions are encoded by a compact text embedding encoder that
                            produces a semantic contextual feature representation. These modality-specific features
                            are fused by an attention-based multimodal fusion module that dynamically weights vi-
                            sual and textual semantic cues and produces a unified representation that captures both
                            disease symptoms and semantic disease descriptions. The fused features are passed to a
                            lightweight classification head that outputs disease class probabilities.
                                  Model training is performed locally at each client to preserve data privacy. Each client
                            trains on its private dataset using differential privacy-aware stochastic gradient descent
                            and per-sample gradients are clipped and perturbed with calibrated Gaussian noise to
                            prevent information leakage. To reduce communication overhead, gradient updates are
                            compressed using sparsification and quantization before transmission. The masked updates
                            are securely aggregated at the central server using an additive secret sharing protocol, and
                            this ensures that individual client updates remain confidential. An adaptive aggregation
                            strategy weights client contributions based on update similarity and data volume to account
                            for non-IID data distributions. The aggregated global model is then redistributed to all
                            participating clients.
                                  FMEL-FSDA includes a few-shot domain adaptation module that uses meta-learning
                            principles and it enables fast adaptation to new regions and crops and emerging diseases.
                            The model learns a parameter initialization that adapts quickly using only a small support
                            set from a new domain. During adaptation, only domain-sensitive layers and the classifi-



                                                                                    https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                             9 of 28



                            cation head are updated and low-level feature extractors stay frozen to avoid overfitting.
                            For few-shot inference, class prototypes are computed in the learned feature space, and
                            query samples are classified by their distances to these prototypes, which gives reliable
                            predictions with minimal labeled data.




                            Figure 1. Figure shows the workflow of the proposed FMEL-FSDA framework.

                                 Finally, the optimized model is deployed on edge devices using post-training quanti-
                            zation and layer fusion, which ensures real-time performance under resource constraints.
                            During inference, new multimodal samples are processed through the complete pipeline.
                            They produce disease predictions and confidence scores. Monte Carlo Dropout is used to es-
                            timate predictive uncertainty, which lets the system flag unreliable cases for expert review.
                            Grad-CAM visualizations highlight disease-relevant image regions and enhance inter-


                                                                                  https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                               10 of 28



                            pretability and user trust. The final output includes the predicted disease class, confidence
                            level, uncertainty estimate, visual explanation, and associated textual semantic informa-
                            tion, which enables practical privacy-preserving and adaptive plant disease diagnosis in
                            real-world agricultural environments.

                            4. Architecture of the Proposed FMEL-FSDA Framework
                                 The proposed FMEL-FSDA framework is designed as a multistage and field-
                            deployable system for plant disease diagnosis. This system is also privacy-preserving,
                            adaptable, and works in real-time conditions. The complete architecture of this framework
                            is shown in Figure 2. The main goal of this framework is to handle different problems at
                            the same time. These problems include the domain variation between laboratory and field
                            environment, the privacy issue between different farms, the few-shot adaptation for new
                            diseases or new regions with limited data, and the efficient deployment on low-resource
                            edge devices. Unlike other conventional methods where federated learning, multimodal
                            fusion, and adaptation are used as separate modules, the FMEL-FSDA framework inte-
                            grates all these components in one unified pipeline. This unified system provides accurate
                            prediction results along with uncertainty-aware and explainable outputs for real agricul-
                            tural environments.




                            Figure 2. Complete architecture of the Federated Multimodal Edge Learning with Few-Shot Domain
                            Adaptation (FMEL-FSDA) framework. The diagram depicts the six-stage workflow from multimodal
                            data acquisition and feature extraction through privacy-preserving federated training, few-s325hot
                            adaptation, to uncertainty-aware edge inference with explainable outputs.

                                 The architecture is consist of six main stages. In Stage-1, the multimodal data are
                            collected and standardized at the edge client side. In Stage-2, the lightweight visual
                            and textual features are extracted. In Stage-3, the attention-based multimodal fusion is
                            applied to create one unified representation for disease diagnosis. In Stage-4, the model is
                            trained in a privacy-preserving federated manner with communication-efficient updates
                            and secure aggregation. In Stage-5, the few-shot domain adaptation is performed to quickly
                            personalize the model for new unseen field domains. Finally, in Stage-6, the real-time
                            inference is generated on edge devices with uncertainty estimation and explainability maps
                            for trustworthy decision-making. Each stage is carefully designed to preserve disease-
                            related visual cues, use textual semantic information, maintain user privacy, and provide
                            reliable prediction results as shown in Figure 2.



                                                                                     https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                                       11 of 28



                            4.1. Stage-1: Multimodal Data Acquisition and Standardization
                                 At each agricultural client, the system collects a multimodal sample consisting of an
                            RGB crop image and corresponding textual disease description that provides semantic
                            information about symptoms, affected plant parts, and disease characteristics. Let the
                            RGB input be x ∈ R H ×W ×3 and the textual input be t, where t represents the textual
                            disease description associated with the image. The textual description provides semantic
                            information such as symptom type, severity level, affected plant regions, and disease
                            progression characteristics. This textual input is encoded using a pre-trained MiniLM
                            text encoder to generate a semantic feature representation suitable for multimodal fusion.
                            The textual features are derived directly from dataset annotations and do not originate
                            from sensor measurements. The input image is resized to a fixed resolution of 224 × 224
                            and normalized to reduce illumination and device-dependent variation:

                                                                               x−µ
                                                                       x′ =        ,                                                 (1)
                                                                                σ
                            where µ and σ are the channel-wise mean and standard deviation. This normalization
                            stabilizes training and improves transfer across different cameras and field lighting condi-
                            tions. The textual disease descriptions are tokenized and encoded using the pre-trained
                            MiniLM text encoder to generate fixed-dimensional semantic embeddings suitable for
                            multimodal fusion. During training, simple data augmentations such as flipping, rotation,
                            and brightness/contrast adjustments are applied to the input images to simulate real field
                            conditions while preserving the disease shape and structural characteristics. These aug-
                            mentations improve the robustness of the model against variations in lighting, orientation,
                            and environmental noise commonly observed in real agricultural environments.

                            4.2. Stage-2: Lightweight Visual and Textual Feature Encoding
                                 After preprocessing, the modality-specific encoders convert the raw inputs into com-
                            pact feature embeddings which are suitable for edge deployment. The visual encoder Evis is
                            based on MobileNetV3 lightweight backbone with efficient attention mechanism. It extracts
                            important visual features from the normalized image:

                                                                     f vis = Evis ( x ′ ),                                           (2)

                            where f vis represents the disease symptoms such as spots, rust pustules, blight regions,
                            boundary irregularity, and texture changes. At the same time, a compact textual encoder
                            Etext based on a pre-trained MiniLM embedding model converts textual disease descrip-
                            tions into semantic feature representation:

                                                                    f text = Etext (t).                                              (3)

                                 This textual feature helps the model to understand semantic disease characteristics
                            such as symptom type, severity, and affected plant regions. This is very important in field
                            environment where the same disease can look different in different regions.

                            4.3. Stage-3: Attention-Based Multimodal Fusion and Diagnosis Head
                                 To combine the multimodal information, FMEL-FSDA use an attention-based fusion
                            module instead of simple concatenation. This fusion block Ff us (·) learns how much each
                            modality contributes for each sample. This helps the system to give robust diagnosis even
                            if one modality is noisy or missing.

                                                                f f us = Ff us ( f vis , f text )                                    (4)



                                                                                             https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                                  12 of 28



                                 This module gives more focus on visual features when symptoms are clear. But when
                            the image is blurred, shadowed, or has early-stage infection, then the system uses more
                            textual semantic information. After fusion, the features are passed to classifier C (·) to
                            predict disease class.
                                                         p(y| x, t) = Softmax(C ( f fus ))                         (5)

                                 Here, p(y| x, t) shows the probability for each disease class. For training the model,
                            cross-entropy loss is used.
                                                            Lcls = − ∑ c = 1C yc log pc                             (6)

                                  In this equation, yc is the true label and pc is the predicted value. This stage gives the
                            final disease prediction and also keeps the system efficient for edge devices.

                            4.4. Stage-4: Privacy-Preserving Federated Training with Efficient Communication
                                 To preserve privacy across farms and agricultural institutions, the proposed FMEL-
                            FSDA framework uses federated learning. In this setting, each client k keeps its local
                            dataset Dk on-device and trains the model without sharing raw RGB images or textual
                            annotations. This design protects farmer data privacy and supports secure collaboration
                            across distributed agricultural sites.
                                 Let θ denote the global model parameters and let K be the total number of participating
                            clients. The overall federated optimization objective is defined as

                                                                              K
                                                                                 nk
                                                               min F (θ ) = ∑       F ( θ ),                                    (7)
                                                                 θ
                                                                            k =1
                                                                                 n k

                            where Fk (θ ) denotes the local empirical risk of client k, nk is the number of training samples
                            stored at that client, and n = ∑kK=1 nk is the total number of samples across all clients. This
                            weighted formulation ensures that clients with more local data contribute proportionally
                            more to the global objective.
                                 At communication round t, the server first broadcasts the current global model θ t to the
                            selected subset of clients St ⊆ {1, . . . , K }. Each selected client performs local optimization
                            on its private dataset and computes a model update

                                                                     ∆k = θkt − θ t ,

                            where θkt denotes the locally updated model of client k after training. Instead of transmitting
                            raw data, each client sends only its model update to the server. The server then integrates
                            the received local updates through weighted aggregation:

                                                                θ t +1 = θ t + ∑ w k ∆ k ,                                      (8)
                                                                              k ∈ St

                            where wk controls the contribution of client k and is typically chosen in proportion to
                            nk . In this way, the server combines the knowledge learned across distributed clients
                            into a single updated global model, which is then redistributed in the next round. This
                            aggregation strategy enables collaborative learning while preserving data locality.
                                  To support bandwidth-constrained agricultural environments, the client updates are
                            compressed before transmission using sparsification and low-bit quantization. These
                            operations reduce communication overhead while maintaining model quality through
                            error-feedback accumulation. In addition, secure aggregation is applied so that the server
                            can recover only the summed client updates rather than any individual client contribution.
                            Thus, the server observes only the aggregated update used for global model integration,




                                                                                        https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                                  13 of 28



                            which further strengthens privacy protection and reduces the risk of information leak-
                            age.The complete federated training procedure is summarized in Algorithm 1.

                            4.5. Stage-5: Few-Shot Domain Adaptation for New Fields and Emerging Diseases
                                 The FMEL-FSDA framework adapts quickly to new regions, crops, or diseases using
                            only a few labeled samples. Given a small support set S = {( xi , ti , yi )}im=1 , the adaptation
                            module updates the parameters as:

                                                                   θ ′ = Adapt(θ, S).                                           (9)

                                 Only the last backbone layers and classifier are updated, while earlier layers stay
                            frozen since they capture general features. This reduces overfitting on small data and
                            speeds up adaptation, making it practical for on-site calibration under changes in lighting,
                            background, disease severity, or camera type.

                            4.6. Stage-6: Real-Time Edge Inference with Explainability and Uncertainty
                                   After training and optional adaptation, the model runs on edge devices for real-time
                            diagnosis. The complete inference procedure, including few-shot domain adaptation,
                            uncertainty estimation, and explainability, is summarized in Algorithm 2. For a new input
                            ( x, t), the system returns the predicted class ŷ along with a confidence score. The prediction
                            is obtained as:

                                                                    ŷ = arg max pc .                                         (10)
                                                                                c

                                 To measure how reliable each prediction is, FMEL-FSDA applies Monte Carlo Dropout.
                            The dropout layers stay active at inference, and the same input is passed through the
                            network T times. Each pass t gives a probability vector p(t) over all disease classes,
                            and these repeated outputs approximate the predictive distribution caused by stochastic
                            dropout masks. The mean and variance are then computed as:

                                                            1 T (t)                 1 T           2
                                                            T t∑                    T t∑
                                                       µ=         p ,    σ2 =             p(t) − µ .                          (11)
                                                               =1                      =1

                                 Here, µ is the averaged class probability across all passes and σ2 shows how much
                            the predictions disagree. Low variance means the model is stable and confident, while
                            high variance points to ambiguous symptoms, noisy field conditions, or out-of-distribution
                            inputs. The final uncertainty score is taken as the mean of the class-wise variances. When
                            this score crosses a set threshold, the sample is forwarded for expert review instead of
                            being accepted directly. The reason is that this triage step adds an extra safety layer to the
                            deployed system.
                                 For interpretability, the framework uses Grad-CAM to produce explanation maps:

                                                              Mexp = GradCAM( f vis , ŷ),                                    (12)

                            where f vis is the visual feature representation used by the classifier. These maps show
                            which image regions drive the final prediction. In practice, the maps confirm that the model
                            looks at disease-relevant areas rather than background, which builds transparency and
                            user trust during deployment.




                                                                                        https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                                      14 of 28



                            4.7. Overall Training Objective
                                 The final training objective of this system is based on classification learning, feder-
                            ated learning constraints, and few-shot adaptation consistency. The total loss function is
                            given as:
                                                        Ltotal = Lcls + λ f s L f sda + λdp Ldp ,                   (13)

                            where Lcls is the classification loss. L f sda is used to improve few-shot domain adaptation
                            and prototype consistency. Ldp is used for privacy protection using differential privacy
                            noise and secure aggregation. The values of λ f s and λdp are used to control the balance
                            between accuracy, adaptability, and privacy.
                                 In summary, the FMEL-FSDA system works in six main stages. First, multimodal data
                            are collected and normalized. Second, lightweight feature extraction is performed. Third,
                            attention-based multimodal fusion and classification is applied. Fourth, privacy-preserving
                            federated learning is used with efficient communication. Fifth, few-shot domain adaptation
                            is applied for new environments. Finally, uncertainty-aware and explainable edge inference
                            is performed.
                                 The complete architecture of this system is shown in Figure 2.

                            Algorithm 1 FMEL-FSDA Federated Training with Privacy and Communication Efficiency
                            Require: Clients {1, . . . , K } with local datasets {Dk }, initial global parameters θ 0 , rounds T, local
                                epochs E, batch size B, learning rate η, DP clipping norm C, DP noise multiplier σ, compression
                                ratio ρ (e.g., top-k), secure aggregation protocol SA
                            Ensure: Trained global model θ T
                             1: for t = 0 to T − 1 do
                             2:    Server selects a subset of available clients St ⊆ {1, . . . , K }
                             3:    Server broadcasts global model θ t to all clients k ∈ St
                             4:    for all clients k ∈ St in parallel do
                             5:       Initialize local model θk ← θ t
                             6:       for e = 1 to E do
                             7:          for each mini-batch {( xi , ti , yi )}iB=1 ∼ Dk do
                             8:             Preprocess: resize and normalize image xi → xi′ ; encode textual description ti → f text,i
                                            using MiniLM encoder
                             9:             Forward: compute fused representation f fus ← Ffus ( Evis ( xi′ ), f text,i )
                            10:             Predict: pi ← Softmax(C ( f f us ))
                            11:             Loss: compute classification loss Lcls on the batch
                            12:             Per-sample gradients: compute { gi }iB=1 ← ∇θk Lcls ( pi , yi )
                                                                                      
                            13:             DP clipping: ḡi ← gi · min 1, ∥ gC∥
                                                                                  i 2     
                            14:             DP noise: g̃ ← B1 ∑iB=1 ḡi + N (0, σ2 C2 I )
                            15:             Update: θk ← θk − η g̃
                            16:          end for
                            17:       end for
                            18:       Client update: ∆k ← θk − θ t
                            19:       Compress: ∆    b k ← Compress(∆k , ρ) {e.g., top-k sparsification + quantization}
                            20:       Secure send: transmit ∆   b k using secure aggregation SA
                            21:    end for
                                                   t
                                   Aggregate: ∆ ← SA {∆
                                                                              
                            22:                               b k : k ∈ St }
                                                                        t
                            23:    Decompress: ∆t ← Decompress(∆ )
                            24:    Server update: θ t+1 ← θ t + ∆t
                            25: end for
                            26: return θ T




                                                                                           https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                                  15 of 28



                            Algorithm 2 FMEL-FSDA Inference with Few-Shot Domain Adaptation, Uncertainty,
                            and Explainability
                            Require: Test sample: RGB image x and textual description t, trained global model θ ∗ , optional
                                support set S = {( xs , ts , ys )} for new domain, MC Dropout passes Tu , uncertainty threshold τu
                            Ensure: Predicted label ŷ, confidence c, uncertainty score u, explanation map Mexp , decision
                             1: Preprocess: resize and normalize x → x ′ ; tokenize and encode textual description t → f text using
                                MiniLM encoder
                             2: if new domain support set S is available then
                             3:    Few-shot adaptation: θ ′ ← Adapt(θ ∗ , S) {update only domain-sensitive layers}
                             4: else
                             5:    θ′ ← θ∗
                             6: end if
                             7: Uncertainty estimation (MC Dropout):
                             8: for t = 1 to Tu do
                                                                    (t)
                             9:    Enable dropout; compute f fus ← Ffus ( Evis ( x ′ ), f text )
                                                          (t)
                            10:   p(t) ← Softmax(C ( f fus ))
                            11: end for
                                                              Tu
                            12: Predictive mean: µ ← T1 ∑t=      1p
                                                                    (t)
                                                           u
                                                                    T
                            13: Predictive variance: σ2 ← T1 ∑t=
                                                               u
                                                                 1(p
                                                                     ( t ) − µ )2
                                                                u
                            14: Confidence: c ← max(µ)
                            15: Predicted label: ŷ ← arg maxc µc
                            16: Uncertainty score: u ← Mean(σ2 ) {or entropy of µ}
                            17: Explainability (Grad-CAM):
                            18: Mexp ← GradCAM( Evis , x ′ , ŷ) {highlight symptom regions used for prediction}
                            19: Uncertainty-aware triage:
                            20: if u ≥ τu then
                            21:    Decision ← Refer to expert/retake sample
                            22: else
                            23:    Decision ← Accept prediction
                            24: end if
                            25: return (ŷ, c, u, Mexp , Decision)



                            5. Dataset Description
                                  In this study, we use the PlantWild dataset to evaluate the proposed Federated Mul-
                            timodal Edge Learning with Few-Shot Domain Adaptation (FMEL-FSDA) framework.
                            PlantWild is a large-scale in-the-wild plant disease dataset collected from real agricul-
                            tural field conditions and is publicly available for research use. There is variability in
                            illumination, background confusion, occlusion, and camera view angles, which will yield
                            a more realistic data set than a lab-based one. It has roughly 18,500 color images across
                            nearly 89 classes of disease affecting crops such as tomato, potato, wheat, rice, and maize.
                            Because of these real-field characteristics, PlantWild is suitable for evaluating model ro-
                            bustness and generalization.
                                  PlantWild also provides textual disease descriptions associated with each image sam-
                            ple. These descriptions include semantic information about disease symptoms, affected
                            plant parts, and disease characteristics. In the proposed framework, RGB images are pro-
                            cessed using a lightweight visual encoder, while the textual descriptions are converted
                            into fixed-dimensional semantic embeddings using a compact text embedding module.
                            Specifically, a pre-trained MiniLM encoder is used to generate 384-dimensional textual em-
                            beddings representing important disease-related information such as symptoms, affected
                            regions, and severity levels. The visual and textual features are then integrated through an
                            attention-based fusion mechanism, which improves classification performance under real
                            field conditions.




                                                                                        https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                              16 of 28



                                  We selected PlantWild because it better matches the objective of this study, namely
                            robust plant disease diagnosis under realistic field conditions. In contrast, PlantVillage
                            is widely used but mainly contains controlled laboratory-style images with clean back-
                            grounds, and PlantDoc, although more field-oriented, is smaller in scale and contains fewer
                            disease categories. Therefore, PlantWild provides a more suitable benchmark for evaluat-
                            ing multimodal fusion, few-shot adaptation, and privacy-preserving federated learning in
                            practical agricultural environments.
                                  For federated learning simulation, the dataset is partitioned into multiple non-IID
                            client subsets, where each client represents a different farm or crop group. Each client
                            trains the model on its own local data, and only model updates are shared with the central
                            server. For few-shot domain adaptation, target subsets are constructed using only 1-shot,
                            5-shot, and 10-shot labeled samples per class, while the remaining samples are used for
                            testing. This setting reflects practical agricultural problems in which labeled data are scarce
                            for new areas or new diseases. A description of the PlantWild dataset and the experiment
                            configuration is shown in Table 2.

                            Table 2. Summary of the PlantWild Dataset and Experimental Setup.

                                 Item                                                       Description
                                 Dataset                                                    PlantWild
                                 Images                                                      ∼18,500
                                 Disease Classes                                               ∼89
                                 Crops                                          Tomato, Potato, Wheat, Rice, Maize
                                 Modalities                                                RGB + Text
                                 Environment                                          Real field conditions
                                 Federated Setup                                    Non-IID client partitions
                                 Few-Shot Settings                                   1-shot, 5-shot, 10-shot
                                 Deployment                                               Edge devices


                            6. Results and Analysis
                                 This section presents the quantitative and qualitative evaluation of the proposed
                            Federated Multimodal Edge Learning with Few-Shot Domain Adaptation (FMEL-FSDA)
                            framework. The main objectives of this experiments are as follows. First, the system
                            should provide high diagnostic performance under different field conditions. Second,
                            the framework should handle non-IID data distribution and also maintain data privacy.
                            Third, the system should adapt quickly to new domains using minimum labeled data.
                            All experiments are performed using stratified five-fold cross-validation protocol on a
                            PlantWild dataset. The final results are reported in the form of mean ± standard deviation
                            for all five folds.

                            6.1. Experimental Setup
                               All experiments are conducted on a high-performance computing workstation. The
                            complete hardware, software, and training configuration is summarized in Table 3.

                            6.2. Federated Learning and Privacy Configuration
                                 To ensure reproducibility and provide clear description of the federated learning
                            protocol, we define client configuration, non-IID data partitioning, training parameters,
                            and differential privacy settings used in this work. The PlantWild dataset is partitioned
                            across K distributed clients to simulate geographically separated agricultural environments
                            which have heterogeneous disease distributions. We use label-skew non-IID partitioning
                            strategy using Dirichlet distribution with concentration parameter α = 0.5. This partition


                                                                                    https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                                  17 of 28



                            reflects realistic variation of disease prevalence across different farms. The detailed client
                            configuration, data partition settings, and training parameters are summarized in Table 4.

                            Table 3. Experimental setup and implementation details.

                             Component                                         Specification
                             Hardware
                             GPU                                               NVIDIA GeForce RTX 4090 (24 GB GDDR6X)
                             CPU                                               AMD Ryzen 9 7950X, 16 cores @ 4.5 GHz
                             RAM                                               64 GB DDR5-6000
                             Software
                             Operating System                                  Ubuntu 22.04 LTS
                             Deep Learning Framework                           PyTorch 2.0.1
                             CUDA/cuDNN                                        11.8/8.7.0
                             Programming Language                              Python 3.10.12
                             Supporting Libraries
                             torchvision                                       0.15.2
                             albumentations (augmentation)                     1.3.1
                             scikit-learn (evaluation)                         1.3.0
                             NumPy                                             1.24.3
                             Training Configuration
                             Mixed Precision                                   FP16
                             Random Seed                                       42
                             Data Split                                        Train/Validation/Test
                             Cross-Validation                                  Stratified 5-fold
                             Hyperparameter Tuning                             Grid search on validation set
                             Statistical Analysis
                             Significance Test                                 Paired t-test with Bonferroni correction
                             Significance Threshold                            p < 0.05

                            Table 4. Federated Learning and Differential Privacy Configuration.

                                  Parameter                                                      Value
                                  Number of clients (K)                                           10
                                  Client sampling fraction                                        0.5
                                  Communication rounds (T)                                        100
                                  Local epochs (E)                                                 5
                                  Batch size (B)                                                  32
                                  Optimizer                                                     Adam
                                  Learning rate (η)                                             0.001
                                  Non-IID partitioning                                    Dirichlet (α = 0.5)
                                  Gradient clipping norm (C)                                      1.0
                                  Noise multiplier (σ)                                            1.1
                                  Privacy budget (ϵ)                                              3.2
                                  Privacy parameter (δ)                                          10−5
                                  Secure aggregation                                    Additive secret sharing
                                  Compression ratio (ρ)                                           0.5
                                  Dropout rate (MC Dropout)                                       0.3


                                  During federated training, some clients are randomly selected in each communication
                            round. Each selected client perform local training using mini-batch stochastic gradient
                            descent on its private multimodal dataset which consists of RGB images and textual de-
                            scriptions. To ensure privacy preservation, differential privacy stochastic gradient descent
                            (DP-SGD) is applied with gradient clipping and Gaussian noise injection. Privacy budget
                            is tracked using the moments accountant method and final privacy guarantee is reported
                            in terms of (ϵ, δ). The differential privacy parameters, clipping threshold, noise multiplier,
                            and privacy budget values are listed in Table 4.


                                                                                        https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                               18 of 28



                                 Secure aggregation is implemented using additive secret-sharing which ensures that
                            the central server can access only aggregated model updates and cannot observe individual
                            client updates. Additionally, model update compression is applied to reduce communi-
                            cation overhead and enable efficient deployment in bandwidth-constrained agricultural
                            environments. The communication settings, compression configuration, and secure aggre-
                            gation parameters are also provided in Table 4.

                            6.3. Baseline Comparison
                                  To demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed FMEL-FSDA framework, we compare
                            this method with different state-of-the-art baseline models under the same experimental
                            settings. The baseline models are include centralized deep learning models such as ResNet-
                            50, EfficientNet-B3, and Vision Transformer (ViT-B/16). It also includes federated learning
                            methods like FedAvg and FedProx, and few-shot learning methods such as MAML and
                            Prototypical Networks. It is important to mention that the centralized models are trained
                            using the full dataset, while the federated learning models are trained on non-IID client data
                            partitions. This setup represents the realistic multisite agricultural deployment scenarios.
                            All models are evaluated on the PlantWild dataset using the same non-IID data distribution
                            protocol to ensure a fair comparison. The comparison results are shown in Table 5.

                            Table 5. Performance Comparison with Baseline Methods on the PlantWild Dataset (5-fold cross-
                            validation, mean ± std).

                             Method                    Acc.        Prec.          Rec.             F1              AUC
                             ResNet-50 (Cent.)   88.42 ± 1.21   87.95 ± 1.33   87.63 ± 1.45   87.78 ± 1.39    0.9451 ± 0.008
                             EffNet-B3 (Cent.)   90.15 ± 1.08   89.78 ± 1.20   89.41 ± 1.32   89.59 ± 1.26    0.9582 ± 0.007
                             ViT-B/16 (Cent.)    91.22 ± 0.95   90.85 ± 1.05   90.52 ± 1.18   90.68 ± 1.11    0.9643 ± 0.006
                             FedAvg (FL)         85.31 ± 1.45   84.72 ± 1.58   84.33 ± 1.70   84.52 ± 1.64    0.9285 ± 0.010
                             FedProx (FL)        86.44 ± 1.38   85.96 ± 1.50   85.58 ± 1.62   85.77 ± 1.56    0.9347 ± 0.009
                             MAML (FS)           82.15 ± 1.65   81.44 ± 1.78   81.02 ± 1.90   81.23 ± 1.84    0.9124 ± 0.012
                             ProtoNet (FS)       83.67 ± 1.52   82.98 ± 1.65   82.55 ± 1.77   82.76 ± 1.71    0.9208 ± 0.011
                             FMEL-FSDA           93.78 ± 0.82   93.45 ± 0.91   93.22 ± 1.02   93.33 ± 0.96    0.9789 ± 0.005


                                  The proposed FMEL-FSDA framework gives better performance than all baseline
                            models in terms of accuracy, precision, recall, F1-score, and AUC. The improvement is
                            statistically significant with p < 0.001 compared to the strongest baseline model (ViT-B/
                            16 centralized). This result shows that the combination of federated learning multimodal
                            fusion and few-shot domain adaptation in one framework is very effective for improving
                            the overall classification performance. Figure 3 shows the training and validation accuracy
                            curves of FMEL-FSDA on the PlantWild dataset, demonstrates smooth convergence and a
                            small generalization gap, and validation accuracy stabilizes around 93.3%. Figure 4 presents
                            the corresponding training and validation loss curves and indicates stable optimization
                            behavior and consistent loss reduction without noticeable oscillations. Figure 5 illustrates
                            the baseline comparison on the PlantWild dataset in terms of classification accuracy and
                            shows that FMEL-FSDA clearly outperforms centralized federated learning and few-shot
                            learning baselines.
                                  There is a trade-off between centralized and federated learning for plant disease
                            detection. Centralized approaches perform well with pooled data and allow potential
                            fine-tuning but involve shipping sensitive raw agricultural data to a central server and
                            are therefore plagued by privacy, ownership, and scalability issues. Federated learning
                            respects data location and is thus well-suited for scattered agriculture, but it introduces ad-
                            ditional complexities, including operating on non-IID client distributions, communication
                            constraints, and privacy-preserving update aggregation. The proposed FMEL-FSDA frame-



                                                                                     https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                               19 of 28



                            work is important in this context because it narrows the gap between these two settings by
                            combining multimodal learning, few-shot adaptation, and efficient federated optimization,
                            thereby providing a more practical balance between accuracy and deployability.




                            Figure 3. Training vs Validation Accuracy (FMEL-FSDA).




                            Figure 4. Training vs Validation Loss (FMEL-FSDA).

                            6.4. Experiment 1: Few-Shot Domain Adaptation Performance
                                 We evaluate the few-shot adaptation performance of FMEL-FSDA using 1-shot, 5-shot,
                            and 10-shot settings on new disease classes and different geographic regions. The model is
                            trained with a small support set from the target domain and then tested on the remaining
                            samples. The performance results are shown in Table 6.
                                 The results shows that the FMEL-FSDA framework gives strong performance even
                            when very limited labeled data are available. This system quickly adapts to new agricultural
                            environments and gives accurate results in different field conditions.




                                                                                     https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                                 20 of 28




                            Figure 5. Baseline comparison of classification accuracy on the PlantWild dataset.

                            Table 6. Few-Shot Domain Adaptation Performance on Novel Domains (5-fold average).

                              Shot Setting          Acc. (%)            Prec. (%)            Rec. (%)               F1 (%)
                              1-shot              76.45 ± 2.15         75.88 ± 2.30        75.32 ± 2.45          75.60 ± 2.38
                              5-shot              84.22 ± 1.78         83.65 ± 1.92        83.10 ± 2.08          83.37 ± 2.00
                              10-shot             88.91 ± 1.45         88.44 ± 1.58        87.99 ± 1.72          88.21 ± 1.65

                            6.5. Experiment 2: Multimodal Fusion Effectiveness
                                 To incorporate textual disease descriptions, we use a pre-trained MiniLM encoder
                            to generate 384-dimensional semantic embeddings from the associated text annotations.
                            These embeddings capture high-level information about disease symptoms, affected plant
                            parts, and severity. The text encoder is used in a frozen configuration without additional
                            fine-tuning to maintain computational efficiency on edge devices.
                                 To analyze the contribution of each modality, we conduct an ablation study using
                            three input configurations: RGB-only, Text-only, and RGB + Text. In the RGB-only setting,
                            the model uses only RGB crop images, and the visual encoder output is directly passed
                            to the classification head without using textual inputs. In the Text-only setting, the model
                            uses only the associated textual disease descriptions, which are encoded by the frozen
                            pre-trained MiniLM text encoder and then passed to the classifier without using the RGB
                            branch. In the RGB + Text setting, both modalities are used jointly and fused through the
                            proposed attention-based multimodal fusion module.In all experiments, the same training
                            protocol and 5-fold cross-validation are applied to have a fair comparison.
                                 The results of this ablation study are summarized in Table 7. The accuracy curves
                            obtained for the various combinations of modalities are illustrated in Figure 6. The accu-
                            racy is clearly significantly higher for combinations of RGB images with textual semantic
                            information, which also converge more quickly than individual modalities.

                            Table 7. Ablation Study on Multimodal Fusion (5-fold average).

                               Modality               Acc.                Prec.                Rec.                  F1
                               RGB only           89.12 ± 1.10        88.65 ± 1.22        88.21 ± 1.35           88.43 ± 1.28
                               Text only          72.34 ± 2.45        71.45 ± 2.60        70.88 ± 2.75           71.16 ± 2.68
                               RGB + Text         93.78 ± 0.82        93.45 ± 0.91        93.22 ± 1.02           93.33 ± 0.96




                                                                                      https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                               21 of 28




                            Figure 6. Ablation study on multimodal fusion showing accuracy curves for RGB only, Text only,
                            and RGB + Text settings.

                            6.6. Experiment 3: Privacy and Communication Efficiency
                                 We evaluate the privacy-preserving and communication efficient performance of the
                            FMEL-FSDA system. The differential privacy noise and gradient compression techniques
                            are applied during the federated training process. These methods help to protect user data
                            and reduce communication cost. Table 8 shows the trade-off between the privacy budget
                            (ϵ) and the model performance.

                            Table 8. Privacy–Utility Trade-off and Communication Cost (5-fold average).

                               DP ϵ                 Acc. (%)         Comm. (MB)             Comp.               Leakage
                               No DP              93.78 ± 0.82           125.4                1.0×               High
                               ϵ = 10             93.12 ± 0.88            31.8                4.0×               Low
                               ϵ=5                92.45 ± 0.95            31.8                4.0×             Very Low
                               ϵ=2                90.88 ± 1.05            31.8                4.0×              Strong


                                  The results show that the FMEL-FSDA system maintains high accuracy even un-
                            der strong empirical privacy–utility trade-off by using noise-based privacy mechanisms
                            (e.g., ϵ = 2). At the same time, the communication cost is reduced up to 4× by using the
                            gradient compression technique. This proves that the proposed system is efficient for model
                            performance, communication efficiency, and practical privacy protection in federated learn-
                            ing environment. As shown in Figure 7, FMEL-FSDA maintains high classification accuracy
                            while achieving up to 4× reduction in communication cost under differential privacy.

                            6.7. Experiment 4: Digital Sustainability and Edge Deployment Performance
                                  We deploy the FMEL-FSDA system on resource-constrained edge devices such as
                            Raspberry Pi 4 and Jetson Nano (Raspberry Pi Holdings PLC, Cambridge, UK). The main
                            purpose of this deployment is to evaluate the inference speed and energy consumption of
                            the proposed model. The performance results of both devices are summarized in Table 9.
                                  The FMEL-FSDA system provides near real-time inference on edge devices with
                            very small accuracy drop. This show that this framework is practical and useful for real
                            field deployment.




                                                                                     https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                                  22 of 28




                            Figure 7. Privacy–Utility and Communication Efficiency Trade-Off of FMEL-FSDA Under Different
                            Privacy Budgets (ϵ).

                            Table 9. Edge Deployment Performance Metrics and Digitization Footprint (size).

                               Device                     Time (ms)          Power (W)           Acc. (%)          Size (MB)
                               Raspberry Pi 4              215 ± 15              3.8           92.45 ± 1.10            12.5
                               Jetson Nano                  89 ± 8               5.2           93.12 ± 0.95            12.5
                               Desktop GPU                  22 ± 2              180.0          93.78 ± 0.82            12.5


                            6.8. Uncertainty Quantification and Explainability
                                 We evaluate the uncertainty estimation and explainability modules of the proposed
                            system. Figure 8 shows the uncertainty distribution for correct and incorrect classification
                            results. It can be clearly seen that the incorrect predictions have high uncertainty values.
                            This helps the system identify low confidence cases and send them for expert review which
                            improves the reliability of the final decision.




                            Figure 8. Uncertainty distribution for correct vs incorrect predictions.

                                Grad-CAM visualizations (Figure 9) highlight disease-relevant regions in RGB images,
                            enhancing interpretability and farmer trust.



                                                                                        https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                             23 of 28




                            Figure 9. Grad-CAM explanations for sample plant disease images.

                            7. Discussion
                                 This study presents the Federated Multimodal Edge Learning with Few-Shot Domain
                            Adaptation (FMEL-FSDA) framework for real-time plant disease diagnosis in field condi-
                            tions and combines federated learning multimodal fusion and few-shot domain adaptation.
                            The results show that this combination improves disease classification performance and
                            addresses privacy domain variability and edge deployment constraints. Unlike many
                            earlier studies that focus only on one component, the proposed framework integrates these
                            capabilities into a single system which increases its practical value for agricultural use.

                            7.1. Performance Under Real-World Field Conditions
                                  FMEL-FSDA achieved better classification performance than centralized, federated,
                            and few-shot baseline methods on PlantWild dataset. This dataset contains real field
                            images with complex background, illumination variation, and occlusion, therefore it is
                            more challenging than controlled laboratory datasets. Earlier deep learning methods
                            showed high accuracy on PlantVillage, but these results do not always perform better in
                            field conditions due to domain shift. The strong performance of FMEL-FSDA on PlantWild
                            shows that the proposed method is more robust for real deployment. In addition, attention
                            based multimodal fusion further improves the results by combining visual disease features
                            with textual semantic information when symptoms are unclear or partially hidden.

                            7.2. Effectiveness of Multimodal Fusion
                                 The ablation study confirms that combining RGB images with textual disease descrip-
                            tions improves diagnostic accuracy compared to single-modality settings and that RGB
                            images provide visible symptom cues. In contrast, textual descriptions provide comple-
                            mentary semantic information, such as symptom type, severity level, and affected plant
                            regions. This is particularly useful in challenging field conditions where image quality
                            may be degraded by weather, illumination changes, background clutter, or camera limita-
                            tions, and it contrasts with many previous plant disease studies that rely only on image
                            input; the proposed multimodal design shows that adding lightweight semantic guidance
                            can improve robustness without requiring expensive sensing hardware. The attention-
                            based fusion module further helps the model adaptively balance the contributions of both
                            modalities based on data quality and relevance.


                                                                                   https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                               24 of 28



                            7.3. Few-Shot Domain Adaptation Capability
                                 FMEL-FSDA also showed strong few-shot adaptation in 1-shot, 5-shot, and 10-shot
                            settings, and it is important because agricultural environments often face new diseases,
                            crop varieties, and regional conditions with only limited labeled data. Several few-shot
                            and meta-learning approaches already exist, but they have mostly been tested in central-
                            ized environments. They are not intended for field deployment while preserving user
                            privacy. The framework described here, in which only the domain-specific layers are
                            trained, and the feature-extracting early layers are fixed, avoids overfitting, speeds up
                            adaptation to the target domain, and enables scalable deployment across geographically
                            distant agricultural fields.

                            7.4. Privacy Preservation and Communication Efficiency
                                 FMEL-FSDA employs federated learning, which allows training on agricultural data
                            without transferring the raw sensitive agricultural data across stakeholders in multistake-
                            holder contexts with privacy requirements. The performance achieved indicates that the
                            introduced system maintains high classification performance while preserving privacy. It
                            reduces communication costs by 4× through gradient compression, which is considered
                            significant given that most previous research on FL in agriculture has focused only on
                            privacy-preserving training methods, with little consideration for the concurrent effects
                            of privacy, communication efficiency, and field adaptability. Moreover, secure aggrega-
                            tion further enhances the protection of individual client updates against unauthorized
                            data acquisition during training. It suggests that concurrent enhancements to both pri-
                            vacy protection and communication efficiency are possible without a serious impact on
                            diagnostic performance.

                            7.5. Edge Deployment and Practical Feasibility
                                 FMEL-FSDA is also deployable on edge devices such as the Raspberry Pi 4 and the Jet-
                            son Nano. This is particularly beneficial, since most accurate plant disease models require
                            significant computational power to run in real time and at the location. With a lightweight
                            backbone, post-training quantization, and model fusion, the proposed framework achieves
                            high accuracy. It incurs little performance degradation on low-power, low-memory de-
                            vices, making it suitable for remote agricultural fields without guaranteed internet or
                            cloud connectivity.

                            7.6. Uncertainty Quantification and Explainability
                                 Monte Carlo Dropout addresses safety concerns by identifying predictions with low
                            confidence and, therefore, escalating them for a human expert to analyze. Grad-CAM,
                            on the other hand, enhances interpretability by highlighting the regions of the input
                            image associated with the particular disease. This functionality is really important in a
                            farming scenario, since an incorrect diagnosis will result in inappropriate, and therefore not
                            economically viable, treatment. Combined, these parts make the proposed system more
                            trustworthy than a black-box system in real-world farming scenarios, encouraging a more
                            responsible use.

                            7.7. Critical Discussion and Trade-Offs
                                 The experiments are evaluated across three relevant contexts: centralized models
                            (accuracy baselines), federated models (privacy-preserving baselines), and few-shot models
                            (adaptation baselines). The comparison is more valuable because each method attempts
                            to solve a different problem in a real-world agricultural setting. The experimental results
                            also reveal trade-offs: while centralized models can produce excellent accuracy, they



                                                                                     https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                                25 of 28



                            require sharing the raw data. Federated learning improves privacy at the cost of additional
                            communication overhead and potential performance degradation when data are non-
                            IID.Likewise, our lightweight multimodal method allows deployment at the edge and
                            robustness to diverse inputs, but may not achieve the same representational power as
                            a large-scale model. Few-shot learning enables very fast adaptation but can be highly
                            sensitive to sample quality in low-shot regimes.

                            7.8. Limitations and Future Directions
                                  Despite its strong performance, FMEL-FSDA has some limitations. The PlantWild
                            dataset does not include real environmental sensor streams. Textual disease descriptions
                            were used as the secondary modality, which should be evaluated using real multimodal
                            agricultural IoT data. Although the federated learning process was tested under non-
                            IID client partitions, it remains to be explored at a very large scale across countries and
                            institutions. Extending the framework to include hyperspectral or thermal imagery may
                            further improve early and robust disease detection, and these directions strengthen both
                            the scientific scope and the practical applicability of the framework.
                                  Overall, FMEL-FSDA is a scalable privacy-preserving and adaptive framework for
                            plant disease diagnosis in real agricultural environments. Its scientific importance is that
                            it improves quantitative performance and shows it works. It also integrates multimodal
                            learning, federated optimization, few-shot adaptation, uncertainty estimation, and edge
                            deployment in a single practical system, which makes it a meaningful step toward real-
                            world intelligent plant disease management.

                            8. Conclusions
                                 This work introduces FMEL-FSDA, which is a Federated Multimodal Edge Learning
                            framework with Few-Shot Domain Adaptation for real-time plant disease diagnosis in field
                            environments. The main purpose of this system is to solve major problems such as data
                            scarcity, domain shift, privacy issues, and limited edge device resources. The proposed
                            framework uses feature fusion with modular design for future multimodal integration.
                            Federated learning is utilized for privacy protection, few-shot learning is employed for
                            fast adaptation, and uncertainty aware inference is used for reliable prediction. The
                            experimental results on PlantWild dataset show that FMEL-FSDA gives better performance,
                            strong robustness, and improved calibration when compared with centralized, federated,
                            and few-shot baseline methods. The explainability and uncertainty estimation modules help
                            to improve system trust by providing transparent and risk-aware decision making. Overall,
                            FMEL-FSDA provides a scalable, secure, and field-ready solution for intelligent plant
                            disease diagnosis and supports the improvement of precision agriculture and sustainable
                            farming practices.

                            Author Contributions: M.I.S.: Conceptualization, Methodology, Software, Validation, Formal analy-
                            sis, Investigation, Data curation, Writing—original draft, Visualization. Y.Z.: Supervision, Project
                            administration, Resources, Funding acquisition. M.Z.S.: Software, Validation. F.M.: Writing—review
                            and editing. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.

                            Funding: This research received no external funding.

                            Data Availability Statement: The dataset used in this study is publicly available. Specifically, the
                            PlantWild dataset can be accessed from its official online repository at https://tqwei05.github.io/
                            PlantWild/ (accessed on 12 January 2026).

                            Acknowledgments: The authors thank South China University of Technology, China for providing
                            the research facilities and computational resources to conduct this study.




                                                                                      https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                                           26 of 28



                                   Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare that there are no conflicts of interest regarding the publica-
                                   tion of this study.

References
1.    Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). Plant Production and Protection. 2026. Available online:
      https://www.fao.org/plant-production-protection/en/ (accessed on 31 January 2026).
2.    Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). The Hidden Health Crisis: How Plant Diseases Threaten Global
      Food Security. 9 September 2025. Available online: https://www.fao.org/one-health/highlights/how-plant-diseases-threaten-
      global-food-security (accessed on 31 January 2026).
3.    Savary, S.; Willocquet, L. Modeling the Impact of Crop Diseases on Global Food Security. Annu. Rev. Phytopathol. 2020, 58,
      313–341. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
4.    Saleem, M.H.; Potgieter, J.; Arif, K.M. Plant Disease Detection and Classification by Deep Learning. Plants 2019, 8, 468. [CrossRef]
      [PubMed]
5.    Kamilaris, A.; Prenafeta-Boldú, F.X. Deep learning in agriculture: A survey. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 147, 70–90. [CrossRef]
6.    Mohanty, S.P.; Hughes, D.P.; Salathé, M. Using Deep Learning for Image-Based Plant Disease Detection. Front. Plant Sci. 2016,
      7, 1419. [CrossRef]
7.    Hughes, D.P.; Salathé, M. An open access repository of images on plant health to enable the development of mobile disease
      diagnostics through machine learning and crowdsourcing. arXiv 2015, arXiv:1511.08060.
8.    Pacal, I.; Kunduracioglu, I.; Alma, M.H.; Deveci, M.; Kadry, S.; Nedoma, J.; Slany, V.; Martinek, R. A systematic review of deep
      learning techniques for plant diseases. Artif. Intell. Rev. 2024, 57, 304. [CrossRef]
9.    TensorFlow Datasets. Plant_VILLAGE Dataset. 2024. Available online: https://www.tensorflow.org/datasets/catalog/plant_
      village (accessed on 31 January 2026).
10.   Ferentinos, K.P. Deep learning models for plant disease detection and diagnosis. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2018, 145, 311–318.
      [CrossRef]
11.   Too, E.C.; Yujian, L.; Njuki, S.; Yingchun, L. A comparative study of fine-tuning deep learning models for plant disease
      identification. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2019, 161, 272–279. [CrossRef]
12.   Rugal, J.; Jacob, M. Deep learning for plant disease detection and diagnosis: Prospects and challenges. Artif. Intell. Agric. 2020, 4,
      127–139. [CrossRef]
13.   Wu, X.; Fan, X.; Luo, P.; Choudhury, S.D.; Tjahjadi, T.; Hu, C. From Laboratory to Field: Unsupervised Domain Adaptation for
      Plant Disease Recognition in the Wild. Plant Phenomics 2023, 5, 38. [CrossRef]
14.   Dosovitskiy, A.; Beyer, L.; Kolesnikov, A.; Weissenborn, D.; Zhai, X.; Unterthiner, T.; Dehghani, M.; Minderer, M.; Heigold, G.;
      Gelly, S.; et al. An image is worth 16 × 16 words: Transformers for image recognition at scale. arXiv 2020, arXiv:2010.11929.
15.   Borhani, Y.; Khoramdel, J.; Najafi, E. A deep learning based approach for automated plant disease classification using vision
      transformer. Sci. Rep. 2022, 12, 11554. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
16.   Yu, S.; Xie, L.; Huang, Q. Inception convolutional vision transformers for plant disease identification. Internet Things 2023,
      21, 100650. [CrossRef]
17.   Hemalatha, S.; Jayachandran, J.J.B. A Multitask Learning-Based Vision Transformer for Plant Disease Localization and Classifica-
      tion. Int. J. Comput. Intell. Syst. 2024, 17, 188. [CrossRef]
18.   Li, G.; Wang, Y.; Zhao, Q.; Yuan, P.; Chang, B. PMVT: A lightweight vision transformer for plant disease identification on mobile
      devices. Front. Plant Sci. 2023, 14, 1256773. [CrossRef]
19.   Barman, U.; Choudhury, R.D.; Sahu, D.; Barman, G.G. Comparison of convolution neural networks for smartphone image based
      real time classification of citrus leaf disease. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2020, 177, 105661. [CrossRef]
20.   Ashwinkumar, S.; Rajagopal, S.; Manimaran, V.; Jegajothi, B. Automated plant leaf disease detection and classification using
      optimal MobileNet based convolutional neural networks. Mater. Today Proc. 2022, 51, 480–487. [CrossRef]
21.   Howard, A.; Sandler, M.; Chu, G.; Chen, L.-C.; Chen, B.; Tan, M.; Wang, W.; Zhu, Y.; Pang, R.; Vasudevan, V.; et al. Searching for
      MobileNetV3. arXiv 2019, arXiv:1905.02244. [CrossRef]
22.   Duhan, S.; Gulia, P.; Gill, N.S.; Narwal, E. RTR_Lite_MobileNetV2: A lightweight and efficient model for plant disease detection
      and classification. Comput. Biol. Med. 2025, 146, 100459. [CrossRef]
23.   Bellout, A.; Zarboubi, M.; Dliou, A.; Latif, R.; Saddik, A. Advanced YOLO models for real-time detection of tomato leaf diseases.
      Math. Model. Comput. 2024, 11, 1198–1210. [CrossRef]
24.   Fuentes, A.; Yoon, S.; Kim, S.C.; Park, D.S. A Robust Deep-Learning-Based Detector for Real-Time Tomato Plant Diseases and
      Pests Recognition. Sensors 2017, 17, 2022. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
25.   Li, T.; Sahu, A.K.; Talwalkar, A.; Smith, V. Federated learning: Challenges, methods, and future directions. arXiv 2019,
      arXiv:1908.07873. [CrossRef]




                                                                                                https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                                            27 of 28



26.   McMahan, H.B.; Moore, E.; Ramage, D.; Agüera y Arcas, B. Federated learning of deep networks using model averaging. arXiv
      2016, arXiv:1602.05629.
27.   Mamba Kabala, D.; Hafiane, A.; Bobelin, L.; Canals, R. Image-based crop disease detection with federated learning. Sci. Rep. 2023,
      13, 19220. [CrossRef]
28.   Hari, P.; Singh, M.P.; Singh, A.K. An improved federated deep learning for plant leaf disease detection. Multimed. Tools Appl. 2024,
      83, 83471–83495. [CrossRef]
29.   Chorney, W.; Rahman, A.; Wang, Y.; Wang, H.; Peng, Z. Federated Learning for Heterogeneous Multi-Site Crop Disease Diagnosis.
      Mathematics 2025, 13, 1401. [CrossRef]
30.   Vetripriya, M.; Amsavalli, S.; Sivasankari, R.; Selvan, V.; Kanimozhi, N. Secure and Decentralized Plant Disease Detection via
      Federated Learning with Differential Privacy and Homomorphic Encryption. Fusion Pract. Appl. 2026, 21, 176–185. [CrossRef]
31.   Finn, C.; Abbeel, P.; Levine, S. Model-agnostic meta-learning for fast adaptation of deep networks. arXiv 2017, arXiv:1703.03400.
32.   Lu, Z.; Pan, H.; Dai, Y.; Si, X.; Zhang, Y. Federated Learning with Non-IID Data: A Survey. IEEE Internet Things J. 2024, 11,
      19188–19209. [CrossRef]
33.   Zhao, Y.; Li, M.; Lai, L.; Suda, N.; Civin, D.; Chandra, V. Federated learning with non-IID data. arXiv 2018, arXiv:1806.00582.
      [CrossRef]
34.   Tan, A.Z.; Yu, H.; Cui, L.; Yang, Q. Towards personalized federated learning. arXiv 2018, arXiv:2103.00710. 2021. [CrossRef]
      [PubMed]
35.   Tan, Y.; Long, G.; Liu, L.; Zhou, T.; Jiang, J. FedProto: Federated prototype learning over heterogeneous devices. arXiv 2021,
      arXiv:2105.00243.
36.   Arivazhagan, M.G.; Aggarwal, V.; Singh, A.K.; Choudhary, S. Federated learning with personalization layers. arXiv 2019,
      arXiv:1912.00818. [CrossRef]
37.   Briggs, C.; Fan, Z.; Andras, P. Federated learning with hierarchical clustering of local updates to improve training on non-IID
      data. arXiv 2020, arXiv:2004.11791. [CrossRef]
38.   Duan, M.; Liu, D.; Ji, X.; Liu, R.; Liang, L.; Chen, X.; Tan, Y. FedGroup: Ternary cosine similarity-based clustered federated
      learning framework toward high accuracy in heterogeneous data. arXiv 2020, arXiv:2010.06870.
39.   Sattler, F.; Müller, K.-R.; Samek, W. Clustered federated learning: Model-agnostic distributed multi-task optimization under
      privacy constraints. arXiv 2019, arXiv:1910.01991. [CrossRef]
40.   de Andrade Porto, J.V.; Cantero Dorsa, A.; de Moraes Weber, V.A.; de Andrade Porto, K.R.; Pistori, H. Usage of few-shot learning
      and meta-learning in agriculture: A literature review. Smart Agric. Technol. 2023, 5, 100307. [CrossRef]
41.   Vinyals, O.; Blundell, C.; Lillicrap, T.P.; Kavukcuoglu, K.; Wierstra, D. Matching networks for one shot learning. arXiv 2016,
      arXiv:1606.04080. [CrossRef]
42.   Antoniou, A.; Edwards, H.; Storkey, A.J. How to train your MAML. arXiv 2018, arXiv:1810.09502.
43.   Jia, J.; Feng, X.; Yu, H. Few-shot classification via efficient meta-learning with hybrid optimization. Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 2024,
      127, 107296. [CrossRef]
44.   Snell, J.; Swersky, K.; Zemel, R.S. Prototypical networks for few-shot learning. arXiv 2017, arXiv:1703.05175.
45.   Mu, J.; Feng, Q.; Yang, J.; Zhang, J.; Yang, S. Few-shot disease recognition algorithm based on supervised contrastive learning.
      Front. Plant Sci. 2024, 15, 1341831. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
46.   Rezaei, M. Plant disease recognition in a low-data scenario using few-shot learning. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2024, 114, 108812.
      [CrossRef]
47.   Yang, S.; Feng, Q.; Zhang, J.; Yang, W.; Zhou, W.; Yan, W. From laboratory to field: Cross-domain few-shot learning for crop
      disease identification in the field. Front. Plant Sci. 2024, 15, 1434222. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
48.   Ahmed, S.; Hasan, M.B.; Ahmed, T.; Kabir, M.H. DExNet: Combining observations of domain adapted critics for leaf disease
      classification with limited data. arXiv 2025, arXiv:2506.18173. [CrossRef]
49.   Zhou, H.; Li, W.; Li, P.; Xu, Y.; Zhang, L.; Zhou, X.; Zhao, Z.; Li, E.; Lv, C. A Novel Few-Shot Learning Framework Based on
      Diffusion Models for High-Accuracy Sunflower Disease Detection and Classification. Plants 2025, 14, 339. [CrossRef]
50.   Uzhinskiy, A. Evaluation of Different Few-Shot Learning Methods in the Plant Disease Classification Domain. Biology 2025, 14, 99.
      [CrossRef]
51.   Pan, S.J.; Yang, Q. A Survey on Transfer Learning. IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng. 2010, 22, 1345–1359. [CrossRef]
52.   Tunio, M.H.; Li, J.; Zeng, X.; Ahmed, A.; Shah, S.A.; Shaikh, H.-U.; Mallah, G.A.; Yahya, I.A. Advancing plant disease classification:
      A robust and generalized approach with transformer-fused convolution and Wasserstein domain adaptation. Comput. Electron.
      Agric. 2024, 227, 109574. [CrossRef]
53.   Salman, Z.; Muhammad, A.; Han, D. Plant disease classification in the wild using vision transformers and mixture of experts.
      Front. Plant Sci. 2025, 16, 1522985. [CrossRef]
54.   Shafik, W.; Tufail, A.; De Silva Liyanage, C.; Apong, R.A.A.H.M. Using transfer learning-based plant disease classification and
      detection for sustainable agriculture. BMC Plant Biol. 2024, 24, 136. [CrossRef] [PubMed]



                                                                                                 https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
Agriculture 2026, 16, 918                                                                                                              28 of 28



55.   Priya, M. Enhancing plant disease detection through transfer learning by incorporating memory-augmented networks and
      meta-learning approaches. Int. J. Eng. Comput. Sci. 2024, 13, 26242–26248. [CrossRef]
56.   Lee, D.-H. Pseudo-label: The simple and efficient semi-supervised learning method for deep neural networks. In Proceedings of
      the ICML Workshop on Challenges in Representation Learning, Atlanta, GA, USA, 21–22 June 2013.
57.   Sun, D.; Robbins, K.; Morales, N.; Shu, Q.; Cen, H. Advances in optical phenotyping of cereal crops. Trends Plant Sci. 2022, 27,
      191–208. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
58.   Shafay, M.; Hassan, T.; Owais, M.; Hussain, I.; Khawaja, S.G.; Seneviratne, L.; Werghi, N. Recent advances in plant disease
      detection: Challenges and opportunities. Plant Methods 2025, 21, 140. [CrossRef]
59.   Nagasubramanian, K.; Jones, S.; Singh, A.K.; Sarkar, S.; Singh, A.; Ganapathysubramanian, B. Plant disease identification using
      explainable 3D deep learning on hyperspectral images. Plant Methods 2019, 15, 98. [CrossRef]
60.   Deng, J.; Hong, D.; Li, C.; Yao, J.; Yang, Z.; Zhang, Z.; Chanussot, J. RustQNet: Multimodal deep learning for quantitative
      inversion of wheat stripe rust disease index. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2024, 225, 109245. [CrossRef]
61.   Baltrusaitis, T.; Ahuja, C.; Morency, L.P. Multimodal Machine Learning: A Survey and Taxonomy. IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach.
      Intell. 2019, 41, 423–443. [CrossRef]
62.   Ngiam, J.; Khosla, A.; Kim, M.; Nam, J.; Lee, H.; Ng, A.Y. Multimodal deep learning. In Proceedings of the 28th International
      Conference on International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML’11); Omnipress: Madison, WI, USA, 2011; pp. 689–696.
63.   Ebrahimi Kahou, S.; Michalski, V.; Konda, K.R.; Memisevic, R.; Pal, C.J. Recurrent neural networks for emotion recognition in
      video. In Proceedings of the 2015 ACM International Conference on Multimodal Interaction, Seattle, WA, USA, 9–13 November
      2015; pp. 467–474. [CrossRef]
64.   Bethge, H.L.; Weisheit, I.; Dortmund, M.S.; Landes, T.; Zabic, M.; Linde, M.; Debener, T.; Heinemann, D. Automated image
      registration of RGB, hyperspectral and chlorophyll fluorescence imaging data. Plant Methods 2024, 20, 175. [CrossRef]
65.   Roumeliotis, K.I.; Sapkota, R.; Karkee, M.; Tselikas, N.D.; Nasiopoulos, D.K. Plant disease detection through multimodal large
      language models and convolutional neural networks. arXiv 2025, arXiv:2504.20419. [CrossRef]
66.   Shi, W.; Cao, J.; Zhang, Q.; Li, Y.; Xu, L. Edge computing: Vision and challenges. IEEE Internet Things J. 2016, 3, 637–646. [CrossRef]
67.   Jacob, B.; Kligys, S.; Chen, B.; Zhu, M.; Tang, M.; Howard, A.G.; Adam, H.; Kalenichenko, D. Quantization and training of neural
      networks for efficient integer-arithmetic-only inference. arXiv 2017, arXiv:1712.05877.
68.   Hinton, G.; Vinyals, O.; Dean, J. Distilling the knowledge in a neural network. arXiv 2015, arXiv:1503.02531. [CrossRef]
69.   Bharathi, M.P.; Sinchana, K.S.; Yashashwini, B.S. Smart Agro-IoT system with edge-AI for crop leaf disease detection and precision
      irrigation. Int. J. Adv. Res. Comput. Commun. Eng. 2025, 14, 106–119. [CrossRef]
70.   Madiwal, A.S.; Jha, R.B.; Barthakur, P. Edge AI and IoT for real-time crop disease detection: A survey of trends, architectures, and
      challenges. Int. J. Res. Innov. Appl. Sci. 2025, 10, 1011–1027. [CrossRef]
71.   Yu, P.; Teng, F.; Zhu, W.; Shen, C.; Chen, Z.; Song, J. Cloud–edge–device collaborative computing in smart agriculture: Architec-
      tures, applications, and future perspectives. Front. Plant Sci. 2025, 16, 1668545. [CrossRef]
72.   Hung, C.-W.; Wang, C.-C.; Liao, Z.-J.; Su, Y.-H.; Liu, C.-L. Intelligent Battery-Designed System for Edge-Computing-Based
      Farmland Pest Monitoring System. Electronics 2025, 14, 2927. [CrossRef]
73.   Sadowski, S.; Spachos, P. Solar-Powered Smart Agricultural Monitoring System Using Internet of Things Devices. In Proceedings
      of the 2018 IEEE 9th Annual Information Technology, Electronics and Mobile Communication Conference (IEMCON), Vancouver,
      BC, Canada, 1–3 November 2018; pp. 18–23. [CrossRef]
74.   Mishra, S.; Nayak, S.; Yadav, R. An Energy Efficient LoRa-based Multi-Sensor IoT Network for Smart Sensor Agriculture System.
      In Proceedings of the 2023 IEEE Topical Conference on Wireless Sensors and Sensor Networks, Las Vegas, NV, USA, 22–25 January
      2023; pp. 28–31. [CrossRef]
75.   Krekovic, D.; Kusek, M.; Podnar Zarko, I.; Le-Phuoc, D. Edge-based predictive data reduction for smart agriculture: A lightweight
      approach to efficient IoT communication. arXiv 2025, arXiv:2511.19103.
76.   Tariq, M.U.; Saqib, S.M.; Mazhar, T.; Khan, M.A.; Shahzad, T.; Hamam, H. Edge-enabled smart agriculture framework: Integrating
      IoT, lightweight deep learning, and agentic AI for context-aware farming. Results Eng. 2025, 28, 107342. [CrossRef]
77.   Pintus, M.; Colucci, F.; Maggio, F. Emerging Developments in Real-Time Edge AIoT for Agricultural Image Classification. IoT
      2025, 6, 13. [CrossRef]
78.   Stevens, T.; Skalka, C.; Vincent, C.; Ring, J.H.; Clark, S.; Near, J.P. Efficient differentially private secure aggregation for federated
      learning via hardness of learning with errors. arXiv 2021, arXiv:2112.06872. [CrossRef]

Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.




                                                                                                  https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture16090918
