00201|Mapping Irrigated Croplands from Sentinel-2 Images Using Deep Convolutional Neural Networks
   > Kappa, i.e., 0.88 and 0.91, respectively. The deep models’ temporal portability across different years was acceptable. The lowest values of recall and OA (overall accuracy)
00202|An automatic method based on daily in situ images and deep learning to date wheat heading stage
   > and validated over a large set of 47 experimental sites located in different regions in France, covering three years with nine wheat cultivars. Results show
00203|A New Framework for Winter Wheat Yield Prediction Integrating Deep Learning and Bayesian Optimization
   > the BO-LSTM method, we explored the performance estimation performance of BO-LSTM in different regions. The results demonstrated that the BO-LSTM model could obtain higher estimation
00204|Deep-learning Versus OBIA for Scattered Shrub Detection with Google Earth Imagery: Ziziphus lotus as Case Study
   > knowledge that CNNs acquired in the first image can be re-utilized in other regions, which makes the detection process very fast. A natural conclusion of
00205|Classification of maize leaf diseases with deep learning: Performance evaluation of the proposed model and use of explicable artificial intelligence
   > [no abstract]
00206|Characterizing major agricultural land change trends in the Western Corn Belt
   > designed a cross-validation scheme for 2006–2015 MODIS data to examine the spatial generalization capability of a neural network classifier. Training data points were derived from … accuracy: 0.65–0.77) for various testing years. We developed a threshold-moving method that decreases/increases threshold values of neural network output signals to match MODIS-derived corn/soybean acreage
00207|Testing the Suitability of Automated Machine Learning for Weeds Identification
   > networks have been used to identify different types of weeds under different real-world conditions. However, these techniques usually require extensive involvement of experts working iteratively
00208|Unsupervised adversarial deep domain adaptation method for potato defects classification
   > database every time a change in data distribution occurs (target images), several domain adaptation methods have been proposed. In this article, we introduce an unsupervised deep domain adaptation method based on adversarial training. A large dataset is used, including … greening, black dot, common scab, and black scurf. Two different scenarios of domain adaptation problem are considered. Firstly,
00209|Application of Machine Learning Algorithms for Digital Mapping of Soil Salinity Levels and Assessing Their Spatial Transferability in Arid Regions
   > 0.77, whereas values for target area samples ranged from 0.66 to 0.88, decreasing as the depth increased. Clay normalized ratio (CLNR), Salinity Index 1, and
00210|ToxDL: deep learning using primary structure and domain embeddings for assessing protein toxicity
   > as toxic or non-toxic, using the outputs of the two aforementioned modules. Independent test results obtained for animal proteins and cross-species transferability results obtained for bacteria proteins indicate that ToxDL outperforms traditional homology-based approaches
00211|Multisource Maximum Predictor Discrepancy for Unsupervised Domain Adaptation on Corn Yield Prediction
   > sensing (RS) observation data for crop yield prediction. However, due to the domain shift between heterogeneous regions, supervised ML models tend to have poor spatial transferability. As a result, models trained with labeled data from one spatial region (i.e., source domain) often lose their validity when directly applied to another region (i.e., target domain). To address this issue, we proposed
00212|UAV-based indicators of crop growth are robust for distinct water and nutrient management but vary between crop development phases
   > [no abstract]
00213|A Deep-Learning-Based Approach for Wheat Yellow Rust Disease Recognition from Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Images
   > and bare soil in small-scale UAV images, and to investigate the spatial generalization of the model. In addition, it was proposed to use the high-accuracy … this basis, this study used the trained semantic segmentation model to recognize another wheat field. The results showed that the method had certain generalization ability, and its accuracy reached 98%. In addition, the high-accuracy classific
00214|Imaging Wheat Canopy Through Stereo Vision: Overcoming the Challenges of the Laboratory to Field Transition for Morphological Features Extraction
   > [no term] Stereo vision is a 3D imaging method that allows quick measurement of plant architecture. Historically, the method has mainly been developed in controlled conditions. This study identified several challenges to
00215|A method of two-dimensional correlation spectroscopy combined with residual neural network for comparison and differentiation of medicinal plants raw 
   > based on Fourier transform near-infrared spectroscopy. RESULTS: (1) Each category samples from different regions could be clustered together better than different drying methods through exploratory … squares discriminant model that the accuracy of train set, test set, and external verification was 100%; (4) The Xinjiang samples was significant differences than others with correlation analysis of 1
00216|Deep adversarial domain adaptation for hyperspectral calibration model transfer among plant phenotyping systems
   > [no abstract]
00217|Advances in Cereal Crop Genomics for Resilience under Climate Change
   > [no term] Adapting to climate change, providing sufficient human food and nutritional needs, and securing sufficient energy supplies will call for a radical transformation from the current conventional adaptation approaches to more
00218|Integration of graph neural networks and genome-scale metabolic models for predicting gene essentiality
   > We integrate this information into a graph neural network that can be trained on knock-out fitness assay data. Comparisons across different model architectures reveal that
00219|Assessing fusarium oxysporum disease severity in cotton using unmanned aerial system images and a hybrid domain adaptation deep learning time series m
   > [no abstract]
00220|Prediction of Corn Yield in the USA Corn Belt Using Satellite Data and Machine Learning: From an Evapotranspiration Perspective
   > study could be used for predicting the yields of other crops in different regions.
00221|A robust vision transformer-based approach for classification of labeled rices in the wild
   > [no abstract]
00222|A Temporal–Geospatial Deep Learning Framework for Crop Yield Prediction
   > data for each county show strong temporal correlations. Moreover, geographic information from different regions also impacts crop yield to a certain extent. For example, if
00223|Evaluating Cross-Applicability of Weed Detection Models Across Different Crops in Similar Production Environments
   > was supplemented with different amounts of non-cotton crop images to see if cross-crop applicability can be improved. Both frameworks achieved reasonably high accuracy levels for … also for complexity level 1 than for level 2. Significant improvements in cross-crop applicability were further observed when additional corn and soybean images were added
00224|Evaluating Impacts between Laboratory and Field-Collected Datasets for Plant Disease Classification
   > [no term] Deep learning with convolutional neural networks represents the most used approach in recent years in the classification of leaves’ diseases. The literature has extensively addressed the problem using laboratory-acquired datasets
00225|One-Class Neural Network With Directed Statistics Pooling for Spoofing Speech Detection
   > Existing deep learning models for spoofing speech detection often struggle to effectively generalize to unseen spoofing attacks that were not present during the training stage. Moreover, the … performance among reproducible ensemble models. Additionally, numerous ablation experiments, along with a cross-dataset experiment, are conducted to validate the rationality and effectiveness of the proposed
00226|A Multiscale Point-Supervised Network for Counting Maize Tassels in the Wild
   > only point-level annotations (i.e., objects labeled with points) to count maize tassels in the wild. Specifically, the proposed method includes a new multicolumn lite feature
00227|Rice Leaf Chlorophyll Content Estimation Using UAV-Based Spectral Images in Different Regions
   > study compared the estimation of rice (Oryza sativa L.) LCC in two different regions (Ningxia and Shanghai) using UAV-based spectral images. For Ningxia, images of … stable and accurate than the SVR and ANN models when applied in different regions with R2 values higher than 0.7 through different validations. The results demonstrated that the rice canopy LCC in different regions, cultivars, and dif
00228|Reconstructing the maize leaf regulatory network using ChIP-seq data of 104 transcription factors
   > conserved within family, while co-binding could be key for their binding specificity. Cross-species comparison shows that core network nodes at the top of the transmission
00229|Training sample selection for robust multi-year within-season crop classification using machine learning
   > fallow land) in the training sample, and 4) training samples collected from different years. We found that 1) the training sample size should be sufficiently … for all crops exceeding 80 %. Our proposed experiments are robust and transferable to other regions and seasons to assist the development of within-season crop maps, and
00230|Characterization of uncertainties and model generalizability for convolutional neural network predictions of uranium ore concentrate morphology
   > uncertainty quanti ﬁ cation for convolutional neural networks and their ability to generalize to out-of-distribution (OOD) image data sets. For prediction uncertainty, Monte Carlo (MC) dropout and … how datasets and classi ﬁ cation models can be improved for better generalizability to out-of-distribution examples.
00231|Deep Learning and Adaptive Graph-Based Growing Contours for Agricultural Field Extraction
   > only requires red, green, and blue (RGB) data and is therefore largely independent of the sensor used. We compare different image features based on color … 0.88. The exclusive use of these universal image features may also facilitate transferability to other regions. We further present modifications to the GGC method intended to aid
00232|Deep Learning Based Automatic Multiclass Wild Pest Monitoring Approach Using Hybrid Global and Local Activated Features
   > [no term] Specialized control of pests and diseases have been a high-priority issue for the agriculture industry in many countries. On account of automation and cost effectiveness, image analytic pest recognition systems
00233|Social-ecological analysis of timely rice planting in Eastern India
   > [no term] Abstract Timely crop planting is a foundation for climate-resilient rice-wheat systems of the Eastern Gangetic Plains—a global food insecurity and poverty hotspot. We hypothesize that the capacity of individual farmers
00234|Rice Yield Prediction in Hubei Province Based on Deep Learning and the Effect of Spatial Heterogeneity
   > use of pure remote sensing data alone ignores the spatial heterogeneity of different regions. In this paper, we tested a total of three models, CNN-LSTM,
00235|Transfer-learning-based approach for leaf chlorophyll content estimation of winter wheat from hyperspectral data
   > shape- enhanced 2DCOS, which originated from 2DCOS, additionally considered the relationships between external perturbations and hyperspectral amplitude and shape characteristics to enhance the dynamic spectrum … the field measured and labeled sample size. To further ascertain the universality, transferability and predictive ability of the proposed hybrid method, field samples collected from diffe
00236|Theoretical Development of Plant Root Diameter Estimation Based on GprMax Data and Neural Network Modelling
   > unknown, the accuracy of the prediction results of the two models is decreased, but the stability of the neural network model is still superior to
00237|Large-scale winter catch crop monitoring with Sentinel-2 time series and machine learning–An alternative to on-site controls?
   > [no abstract]
00238|Domain generalization plant leaf disease recognition: Toward from laboratory to field
   > [no abstract]
00239|Applying deep learning to right whale photo identification
   > [no term] Photo identification is an important tool for estimating abundance and monitoring population trends over time. However, manually matching photographs to known individuals is time-consuming. Motivated by recent developments in image
00240|Spatial-temporal patterns of features selected using random forests: a case study of corn and soybeans mapping in the US
   > states in the ECB have very similar patterns: Temporal pattern showed that different years always reflected the same pattern. Date-related and phenology curve-related features were
00241|YOLO-based deep learning framework for real-time multi-class plant health monitoring in precision agriculture
   > where detection fidelity is paramount. Remaining challenges occlusions, visually ambiguous symptoms, and domain shift are analysed, and mitigation strategies (multi-spectral inputs, temporal modelling, and edge-side
00242|Detection of target spot and bacterial spot diseases in tomato using UAV-based and benchtop-based hyperspectral imaging techniques
   > [no abstract]
00243|Modeling and optimization of coagulant dosage in water treatment plants using hybridized random forest model with genetic algorithm optimization
   > [no abstract]
00244|Field Geometry and the Spatial and Temporal Generalization of Crop Classification Algorithms—A Randomized Approach to Compare Pixel Based and Convolut
   > spatially, by splitting training and validation pixels for a given year. Though generalizing models temporally is potentially more difficult, it has been a recent trend to transfer models from one year to another, and therefore to validate temporally. The study argues that it is always … the training data. It shows that convolutional neural networks have potential to generalize better than pixel b
00245|A cross-domain fruit classification method based on lightweight attention networks and unsupervised domain adaptation
   > application scenarios. One feasible solution to solve this problem is to use domain adaptation that adapts knowledge from the original training data (source domain) to the new testing data (target domain). In this paper, we propose a novel deep learning-based unsupervised domain adaptation method for cross-domain fruit classification. A hybrid attention module is proposed and added to MobileNet … 
00246|A comprehensive review on soil classification using deep learning and computer vision techniques
   > [no abstract]
00247|Remote Sensing Crop Recognition by Coupling Phenological Features and Off-Center Bayesian Deep Learning
   > most existing crop mapping models based on remote sensing data have poor generalizability, they cannot be rapidly deployed for crop identification tasks in different regions. Based on a priori knowledge of phenology, we designed an off-center … the proposed method can be directly applied to crop area estimations in different years in other regions based on its good correlation with official statis
00248|Segmentation of farmlands in aerial images by deep learning framework with feature fusion and context aggregation modules
   > [no abstract]
00249|Robust Hybrid Deep Learning for Potato Price Forecasting in Agricultural Management
   > [no abstract]
00250|Neural network modeling of drying of rice in BAU-STR dryer
   > [no abstract]
00251|TimeSen2Crop: A Million Labeled Samples Dataset of Sentinel 2 Image Time Series for Crop-Type Classification
   > of the crop type mapping task: adapting multitemporal deep learning models to different year (domain adaptation). The design of the dataset is described along with a benchmark
00252|A comparative study of Fourier transform and CycleGAN as domain adaptation techniques for weed segmentation
   > representative dataset for each specific condition that can appear in the fields. Domain Adaptation techniques are exploited to maintain high detection performance in different field … presents a comparison of the two main style transfer techniques for performing domain adaptation, that is, the Fourier Transform and the CycleGAN architecture. We used
00253|Deployable Deep Learning for Cross-Domain Plant Leaf Disease Detection via Ensemble Learning, Knowledge Distillation, and Quantization
   > environments to real-world agricultural conditions. Despite recent advances, three fundamental barriers remain: cross-domain generalization, severe class imbalance, and computational limitations for edge deployment. This study introduces the first open cross-domain benchmark for tomato leaf disease detection, unifying PlantVillage and TomatoVillage datasets into … \times $ compression (1.46 MB) wh
00254|Phenological normalization can improve in-season classification of maize and soybean: A case study in the central US Corn Belt
   > present a new approach to in-season crop type mapping that addresses inter-annual domain shift by normalizing satellite observations by land surface phenology stage. These phenology-normalized
00255|Mapping integrated crop-livestock systems in Brazil with planetscope time series and deep learning
   > [no abstract]
00256|Detecting fungi-affected multi-crop disease on heterogeneous region dataset using modified ResNeXt approach
   > [no abstract]
00257|Predicting Rice Heading Date Using an Integrated Approach Combining a Machine Learning Method and a Crop Growth Model
   > model, and allows heading date prediction of a new genotype in a new environment. To estimate the parameters, we implemented a Bayesian approach with the
00258|Exploring the Origins and Prevalence of Texture Bias in Convolutional Neural Networks.
   > this bias, and where does it come from? We find that, when trained on datasets of images with conflicting shape and texture, CNNs learn to … as by texture. What factors, then, produce the texture bias in CNNs trained on ImageNet? Different unsupervised training objectives and different architectures have small but significant and largely independent effects on the level of texture bias. However, a
00259|TimeMatch: Unsupervised cross-region adaptation by temporal shift estimation
   > to the temporal shift of crop phenology between regions. Although various unsupervised domain adaptation techniques have been proposed in recent years, no method explicitly learns … propose TimeMatch, which explicitly accounts for the temporal shift for improved SITS-based domain adaptation. In TimeMatch, we first estimate the temporal shift from the target
00260|Pre-Constrained Machine Learning Method for Multi-Year Mapping of Three Major Crops in a Large Irrigation District
   > the mixed pixels at a spatial distribution and the high error in different years at a temporal scale. The objective of this study is to
00261|Enhancing weed detection using UAV imagery and deep learning with weather-driven domain adaptation
   > [no abstract]
00262|Predictive geographical authentication of green tea with protected designation of origin using a random forest model
   > RF model not only discriminated Westlake Xihu Longjing green tea (XHLJ) from other regions with an accuracy of 97.6%, but also correctly identified green tea
00263|Assessing the impact of climate variability on maize yields in the different regions of Ghana—A machine learning perspective
   > stacking ensemble learning model (SELM) in predicting the maize yield in the different regions taking random forest (RF), support vector machine (SVM), gradient boosting (GB),
00264|Ensemble Machine Learning Techniques Using Computer Simulation Data for Wild Blueberry Yield Prediction
   > SR showed the best performance 0.984 R2 and 179.898 RMSE compared with another study that published 0.938 R2 and 343.026 RMSE on the seven features … were selected by SBEFS. Our SR outperformed CR, many other techniques, and another study on wild blueberry yield prediction.
00265|MAFDE-DN4: Improved Few-shot plant disease classification method based on Deep Nearest Neighbor Neural Network
   > [no abstract]
00266|Multi-modal deep learning improves grain yield prediction in wheat breeding by fusing genomics and phenomics
   > (0.559 ± 0.050). We further predict yield on new lines in an unseen environment using only genotypes, obtaining a prediction accuracy of 0.386 ± 0.010,
00267|Lattice: A Vision for Machine Learning, Data Engineering, and Policy Considerations for Digital Agriculture at Scale
   > generation of biofuels and policy challenges in the implementation of digital agriculture in the wild.
00268|Physics-informed neural networks in water and wastewater systems: a critical review
   > × reductions in required training data compared to standard neural networks, improved generalization under distribution shift, and successful use in scenarios involving partial observations and uncertain boundary
00269|A fast and accurate deep learning method for strawberry instance segmentation
   > bounding-box regressor are removed; the non-maximum suppression algorithm is replaced with a new region grouping and filtering algorithm without increasing the order of complexity. For
00270|Innovative agricultural ontology construction using NLP methodologies and graph neural network
   > of the development, establishing an agricultural ontology would unleash the growth of cross-domain agriculture and Natural Language Processing (NLP). For constructing such domain-based ontology, semantic
00271|TSANet: A deep learning framework for the delineation of agricultural fields utilizing satellite image time series
   > [no abstract]
00272|A Comparative Assessment of Regular and Spatial Cross-Validation in Subfield Machine Learning Prediction of Maize Yield from Sentinel-2 Phenology
   > aim of this study is to determine the reliability of regular and spatial cross-validation methods in predicting subfield-scale maize yields using phenological measures derived by … inputs for three machine learning models, including Random Forest (RF) and Bayesian Generalized Linear Model (BGLM), which were trained and evaluated using both regular and spatial 10-fold cross-validation. Results show
00273|Nutrient Status Diagnosis of Infield Oilseed Rape via Deep Learning-Enabled Dynamic Model
   > features. The Inceptionv3-LSTM obtained the highest overall classification accuracy of 95% when tested on the dataset of 2017/2018 and it also provided a good generalization when using a cross-dataset validation, with the highest overall accuracy of 92%. Our proposed approach presents
00274|A new transferable deep learning approach for crop mapping
   > the domain gap between the training and testing images and enhances the transferability of the DSH. In addition, the input data of the DSH are … China, and France with different farming structures, climate conditions, and landscape complexities. Temporal transfer revealed that the classification performance of DSH improved as the growth
00275|Generalization Enhancement Strategies to Enable Cross-Year Cropland Mapping with Convolutional Neural Networks Trained Using Historical Samples
   > limits the ability to create annual maps essential for agricultural monitoring, as domain shifts occur between years and regions due to changes in farming practices … flexible enough to account for these shifts without needing yearly labels. While domain adaptation techniques or semi-supervised training are common solutions, we explored enhancing the model's generalization power. Our results indic
00276|A global microbiome survey of vineyard soils highlights the microbial dimension of viticultural terroirs
   > locations and microbial biodiversity on different scales: between continents, countries, and between different regions within the same country. Climate data correlates with fungal alpha diversity
00277|Unsupervised Adversarial Domain Adaptation for Agricultural Land Extraction of Remote Sensing Images
   > One way to reduce the annotation cost approach is to migrate models trained on existing annotated data (source domain) to unannotated data (target domain). However, model generalization capability is often unsatisfactory due to the limit of the domain gap. In this work, we use an unsupervised adversarial domain adaptation method to train a neural network to close the gap between the source and tar
00278|Modeling the effects of precipitation and temperature patterns on agricultural drought in China from 1949 to 2015
   > detecting agricultural drought in critical months or seasons of crop growth in different regions. This study presents a framework and reference for drought monitoring in
00279|Evaluating the reliability of machine-learning-based predictions used in nuclear power plant instrumentation and control systems
   > [no abstract]
00280|Discrimination of civet coffee using near infrared spectroscopy and artificial neural network
   > [no term] IntroductionCivet coffee refers to the coffee that includes partlydigested coffee cherries eaten and defecated by the palm civet cat (Paradoxurus hermaphrodites).Civet cats seek out and eat only the ripest, reddish
00281|A survey on deep learning in UAV imagery for precision agriculture and wild flora monitoring: Datasets, models and challenges
   > [no term] Machine learning is the state of the art for many recurring tasks in several heterogeneous domains. In the last decade, it has been also widely used in Precision Agriculture (PA)
00282|A non-destructive and highly efficient model for detecting the genuineness of maize variety 'JINGKE 968′ using machine vision combined with deep learn
   > [no abstract]
00283|Prediction of drought-induced reduction of agricultural productivity in Chile from MODIS, rainfall estimates, and climate oscillation indices
   > combined in a single spatio-temporal model. Both approaches were evaluated with a leave-one-year-out cross-validation procedure. Both methods showed good prediction accuracies for small lead times
00284|Application of machine learning approaches in supporting irrigation decision making: A review
   > [no term] Irrigation decision-making has evolved from solely depending on farmers’ decisions taken based on the visual analysis of field conditions to making decisions based on crop water need predictions generated using
00285|Visual large language model for wheat disease diagnosis in the wild
   > [no abstract]
00286|Within- and cross-species predictions of plant specialized metabolism genes using transfer learning
   > a machine learning strategy, transfer learning, where knowledge from A. thaliana is transferred to predict gene functions in cultivated tomato with fewer experimentally annotated genes. … Our study demonstrates that SM/GM genes can be better predicted by leveraging cross-species information. Additionally, our findings provide an example for transfer learning in genomics where knowledge can be tran
00287|Assessing the Sensitivity of Global Maize Price to Regional Productions Using Statistical and Machine Learning Methods
   > America negatively impacts the global maize price by about –7%, while a decrease of –0.1% is expected to increase global maize price by more than +7%. Our classification models show that a small decrease in the maize yield in Northern America can inflate the probability of maize price increase on the global scale. The maize productions in the other regions have a much lower influence on the global
00288|[Research on remote sensing recognition of wild planted Lonicera japonica based on deep convolutional neural network].
   > [no term] Identification of Chinese medicinal materials is a fundamental part and an important premise of the modern Chinese medicinal materials industry. As for the traditional Chinese medicinal materials that imitate wild
00289|Application of bagging and boosting ensemble machine learning techniques for groundwater potential mapping in a drought-prone agriculture region of ea
   > be the most effective in mapping groundwater potential, suggesting their applicability in other regions with similar hydrogeological conditions. The performance metrics for RF are very
00290|Improving fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy phasor accuracy using convolutional neural networks
   > images and improve segmentation accuracy. Additionally, the performance of our method on out-of-distribution highly scattering in vivo plant samples shows that it can also improve
00291|Adaptive Deep Learning for Crop Weed Discrimination in Unseen Fields
   > [no abstract]
00292|Subfield-level crop yield mapping without ground truth data: A scale transfer framework
   > [no abstract]
00293|Cross Domain Early Crop Mapping Using CropSTGAN
   > "direct transfer strategy" that trains a classifier using historical labels collected from other regions and then applies the trained model to the target region. Unfortunately, … conditions, and crop progress, the resultant models perform poorly on new and unseen regions or years. Despite recent efforts, such as the application of the
00294|An automated sample generation method by integrating phenology domain optical-SAR features in rice cropping pattern mapping
   > [no abstract]
00295|A layered approach to detect elephants in live surveillance video streams using convolution neural networks
   > [no term] Human-Elephant Conflict (HEC) and its mitigation have always been a serious conservation issue in India. It occurs mainly due to the encroachment of forests by humans as part of societal
00296|Deep segmentation and classification of complex crops using multi-feature satellite imagery
   > [no abstract]
00297|Numerical Simulation and Analysis on Spray Drift Movement of Multirotor Plant Protection Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
   > protection UAVs have been widely used in vast plains, hills, mountains, and other regions, and become an integral part of China’s agricultural mechanization and modernization.
00298|Cotton yield prediction utilizing unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) and Bayesian neural networks
   > [no abstract]
00299|Water quality assessment for River Mahanadi of Odisha, India using statistical techniques and Artificial Neural Networks
   > [no abstract]
00300|Building a new machine learning-based model to estimate county-level climatic yield variation for maize in Northeast China
   > [no abstract]
00301|Transferability of Machine Learning Models for Crop Classification in Remote Sensing Imagery Using a New Test Methodology: A Study on Phenological, Te
   > high classification accuracy but do not necessarily have a high degree of transferability to new regions. This paper investigates the use of machine learning models for crop … proposes a new testing methodology that systematically analyzes the quality of the spatial transfer of trained models. In this study, the classification results of Random
00302|Prediction and analysis of water resources demand in Taiyuan City based on principal component analysis and BP neural network
   > an important reference for water demand assessment and optimal water allocation in other regions.
00303|Forecasting China's agricultural carbon emissions: A comparative study based on deep learning models
   > result provides a significant forecasting tool for assessing agricultural carbon emissions in different regions, offering insights crucial for targeted mitigation strategies.
00304|Predicting maize yield in Northeast China by a hybrid approach combining biophysical modelling and machine learning
   > [no abstract]
00305|Vision Transformer-Capsule Network for Orange Quality Inspection: Ripeness and Black Spot Disease Detection
   > [no abstract]
00306|A deep learning method for individual arable field (IAF) extraction with cross-domain adversarial capability
   > [no abstract]
00307|A Robust Ensemble Model for Plant Disease Detection Using Deep Learning Architectures
   > conducted on three datasets—PlantVillage, PlantDoc, and FieldPlant—representing a mix of laboratory and real-world conditions. Advanced data augmentation techniques were employed to improve model generalization, while a systematic ablation study validated the efficacy of key architectural choices.
00308|Hybridization of process-based models, remote sensing, and machine learning for enhanced spatial predictions of wheat yield and quality
   > site-specific recommendations for enhanced productivity. • Higher variability in nutrient concentrations across different sites and cultivars. Ensuring accurate predictions of wheat yield and nutritional content … RS for comprehensive yield and nutrition prediction. The findings indicate a modest decrease in protein, Fe, and Zn concentrations with increasing grain yield, exhibiting high variabilit
00309|Artificial Intelligence and Machine learning based prediction of resistant and susceptible mutations in Mycobacterium tuberculosis
   > accuracy of 85% across all examined genes and were evaluated on an external unseen dataset to demonstrate their application. Further, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations
00310|Combining spectrum, thermal, and texture features using machine learning algorithms for wheat nitrogen nutrient index estimation and model transferabi
   > [no abstract]
00311|Identifying and mapping individual medicinal plant Lamiophlomis rotata at high elevations by using unmanned aerial vehicles and deep learning
   > [no term] BACKGROUND: The identification and enumeration of medicinal plants at high elevations is an important part of accurate yield calculations. However, the current assessment of medicinal plant reserves continues to rely
00312|Boosting crop classification by hierarchically fusing satellite, rotational, and contextual data
   > 85% to 89% for the FR dataset. Pre-training on a dataset improves transferability between countries, allowing for cross- domain and label prediction, and robustness of … the often overlooked spatio-temporal context of parcels, resulting in increased precision and generalization capacity.
00313|Robust crop disease detection using multi-domain data augmentation and isolated test-time adaptation
   > promising avenues for automated disease detection, many existing models are challenged by domain shift, performing poorly when applied to data from new environments with different distributions. To address this issue, we propose a novel cross-domain detection framework that integrates Multi-Domain Data Augmentation and Isolated Test-Time Adaptation Optimization (ITTA) to enhance model generalizati
00314|Fine-grained recognition of plants from images
   > from identification of plants from specific plant organs to general plant recognition "in the wild". RESULTS: We propose texture analysis and deep learning methods for … leaf and bark classification and achieve very competitive results in plant recognition "in the wild". CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that recognition of segmented leaves is
00315|Enhancing grain moisture prediction in multiple crop seasons using domain adaptation AI
   > • Developing a domain adaptation (DA) workflow for predicting rice grain moisture content (GMC) in multiple … a 54.66 % improvement in DA-modified GMC prediction with only 0.1 % target domain data. • Generating a rice maturity map through supervised and unsupervised
00316|RETRACTED ARTICLE: Agricultural intrusion detection (AID) based on the internet of things and deep learning with the enhanced lightweight M2M protocol
   > [no abstract]
00317|InDel marker detection by integration of multiple softwares using machine learning techniques
   > InDel markers detected by SVM-M from soybeans that were collected from 56 different regions, highly polymorphic loci were selected to construct an InDel marker database
00318|Clustering-based spatial transfer learning for short-term ozone forecasting
   > ozone concentrations, especially in times with high concentrations. We proposes a clustering-based spatial transfer learning Multilayer Perceptron (SPTL-MLP) to predict ozone concentration at the target … similar stations and train them together to get a base model for spatial transfer learning. For practical applications, a weighted loss function has been designed
00319|A diverse ensemble classifier for tomato disease recognition
   > [no abstract]
00320|Machine learning for analysis of real nuclear plant data in the frequency domain
   > provided by two different reactors, including no labels about perturbation existence. A domain adaptation methodology is subsequently developed to extend the simulated setting to real
00321|Machine Learning-Based Summer Crops Mapping Using Sentinel-1 and Sentinel-2 Images
   > time series data produced close mean F1 scores across spatial, temporal, and spatiotemporal transfer scenarios, though median features dataset was the best choice for spatiotemporal transfer. Polarimetric S1 data did not yield effective results. The InceptionTime classifier
00322|Agricultural Parameters and Essential Oil Content Composition Prediction of Aniseed, Based on Growing Year, Locality and Fertilization Type—An Artific
   > network modelling were growing year (two successive growing years), growing locality (three different locations in Vojvodina Province, Serbia) and fertilization type (six different treatments). The
00323|Zero-Shot Transfer Learning Framework for Plant Leaf Disease Classification
   > that training and testing data share the same distribution. To address this, domain adaptation and transfer learning techniques have been employed, bridging the gap between … Learning’ is introduced. This addresses the challenge of improving classifier performance when trained on a source domain with different classes and tested on a target domain, exemplified by tomato and potato datasets. More s
00324|REAL-TIME SELECTIVE SPRAYING FOR VIOLA ROPE CONTROL IN SOYBEAN AND COTTON CROPS USING DEEP LEARNING
   > [no term] The cultivation of soy and cotton is of great importance in the Brazilian economic scenario, both of which move billions of reais per year in exports. Weed management is important
00325|PREDICTING BIOMASS AND YIELD AT HARVEST OF SALT-STRESSED TOMATO PLANTS USING UAV IMAGERY
   > [no term] Abstract. Biomass and yield are important variables used for assessing agricultural production. However, these variables are difficult to estimate for individual plants at the farm scale and may be affected
00326|A Method for Detecting Tomato Maturity Based on Deep Learning
   > and local information is realized through the self-attention mechanism, which improves the generalization ability and feature extraction ability of the model, thereby bringing higher detection accuracy. Secondly, the C2f convolution in the neck section is replaced with Distribution Shifting Convolution, so that the model can better process spatial information and
00327|Cross-Domain Adaptation Techniques for Robust Plant Disease Detection: A DANN-CORAL Hybrid Approach
   > learning models has shown promising results, but these models often struggle with generalizing across diverse agricultural environments due to domain shifts in imaging conditions. This paper presents a novel hybrid approach focusing on cross-domain adaptation techniques to address the challenge of domain shift. Our proposed method combines the Domain-Adversarial Neural Network (DANN) with Correlat
00328|Field-based multispecies weed and crop detection using ground robots and advanced YOLO models: A data and model-centric approach
   > variants were trained using annotated weed and crop images gathered from four different sites including combined dataset from four sites. The Yolov8 and Yolov9 models’
00329|Evaluation of cameras and image distance for CNN-based weed detection in wild blueberry
   > [no term] Agricultural herbicide application efficiency can be improved using smart sprayers which provide site-specific, rather than broadcast, applications of agrochemicals. The YOLOv3-Tiny convolutional neural network (CNN) was trained to detect two
00330|Detecting Plant Invasion in Urban Parks with Aerial Image Time Series and Residual Neural Network
   > and high forest contextual variation in space (from one invaded park to another) and over time (caused by varying stages of invasion and the difference … in North Carolina, USA. The results demonstrate a promising spatial and temporal generalization capacity of deep learning to detect urban invasive plants. In particular, the
00331|Satellites reveal a small positive yield effect from conservation tillage across the US Corn Belt
   > at restoring and maintaining soil health for long-term crop productivity. Because soil degradation typically operates on century timescales, farmer adoption is influenced by near-term yield … impacts of conservation tillage, their results are mixed and often unrepresentative of real-world conditions. Here, we applied a machine-learning causal inference approach to satellite-derived datasets
00332|Simulation of precipitation time series using tree-rings, earlywood vessel features, and artificial neural network
   > [no abstract]
00333|Black Sigatoka Classification Using Convolutional Neural Networks
   > neural network to detect the progress of infection by the disease in different regions of a leaf image; using this information, we trained a decision
00334|Dynamics and causes of cropland Non-Agriculturalization in typical regions of China: An explanation Based on interpretable Machine learning
   > in recent years. Studying the spatial and temporal patterns of CLNA in different regions and its driving factors is of great significance for formulating and
00335|A framework for predicting soft-fruit yields and phenology using embedded, networked microsensors, coupled weather models and machine-learning techniq
   > using iterative training for novel fruit varieties or crop types growing in different locations without a-priori phenological information. At this stage in the development of
00336|Transformer-Based Water Stress Estimation Using Leaf Wilting Computed from Leaf Images and Unsupervised Domain Adaptation for Tomato Crops
   > RGB camera, which are processed by the proposed daily normalization. In addition, domain adaptation in our Transformer model was implemented to enable robust learning in
00337|Limited conservation in cross-species comparison of GLK transcription factor binding suggested wide-spread cistrome divergence
   > [no term] Non-coding cis-regulatory variants in animal genomes are an important driving force in the evolution of transcription regulation and phenotype diversity. However, cistrome dynamics in plants remain largely underexplored. Here, we
00338|Transfer learning–based PET/CT three-dimensional convolutional neural network fusion of image and clinical information for prediction of EGFR mutation
   > 0.849-0.917) in the training set and 0.730 (95%CI = 0.629-0.830) in the independent test set. Particularly in advanced LADC, the model achieved an AUC of
00339|Robust Deep Convolutional Solutions for Identifying Biotic Crop Stress in Wild Environments
   > recent state-of-the-art works on the benchmark PlantDoc dataset, showing its effectiveness in generalizing plant disease identification tasks. Finally, an ablation study has been carried out
00340|Deep Learning-based Monocular Obstacle Avoidance for Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Navigation in Tree Plantations
   > [no abstract]
00341|An Overview of Integrating Deep Learning Methods With Close-Range Hyperspectral Imaging for Agriculture
   > (e.g., limited availability of annotated datasets, the need for robust models under real-world conditions, and the integration of spatial and spectral information) and potential future
00342|Plant classification in the wild: Energy evaluation for deep learning models
   > [no abstract]
00343|Aligning satellite-based phenology in a deep learning model for improved crop yield estimates over large regions
   > we show that applying the aligned phenology in the deep learning model decreases the error of corn yield estimates from 34.1 bu/ac (or 21.8 %) … increase the explained yield variability from 61 % to 71 % for leave-one-year-out predictions. The improvements are most significant in fields with yield loss that
00344|Multimodal performers for genomic selection and crop yield prediction
   > neural network architectures on the task of predicting barley yields across 8 different locations in Norway for the years 2017 and 2018. We show that
00345|Identification of new marker genes from plant single‐cell RNA‐seq data using interpretable machine learning methods
   > [no term] Summary An essential step in the analysis of single‐cell RNA sequencing data is to classify cells into specific cell types using marker genes. In this study, we have developed a
00346|Spatio-temporal multi-level attention crop mapping method using time-series SAR imagery
   > South Africa dataset, validating its effectiveness and superiority. Further comparison of spatio-temporal generalization capability reflected its excellent performance in spatio-temporal modeling on different crops and
00347|Hair Fescue and Sheep Sorrel Identification Using Deep Learning in Wild Blueberry Production
   > [no term] Deep learning convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are an emerging technology that provide an opportunity to increase agricultural efficiency through remote sensing and automatic inferencing of field conditions. This paper examined
00348|Machine learning-based cloud computing improved wheat yield simulation in arid regions
   > [no abstract]
00349|Mapping the condition of macadamia tree crops using multi-spectral UAV and WorldView-3 imagery
   > [no abstract]
00350|Biology and control of Pectobacterium in potato
   > [no abstract]
00351|A fast and efficient approach to estimate wild blueberry yield using machine learning with drone photography: Flight altitude, sampling method and mod
   > [no abstract]
00352|i6mA-Vote: Cross-Species Identification of DNA N6-Methyladenine Sites in Plant Genomes Based on Ensemble Learning With Voting
   > constructed by combining five different base-classifiers under a majority voting strategy and trained on the Rosaceae training dataset. The i6mA-vote was evaluated on the task
00353|Deep-Transfer-Learning Strategies for Crop Yield Prediction Using Climate Records and Satellite Image Time-Series Data
   > standard TrAdaBoost.R2. Additionally, the study offers insights for improving the accuracy and generalizability of crop yield prediction models in diverse agricultural landscapes across different regions.
00354|Wheat crop genotype and age prediction using machine learning with multispectral radiometer sensor data
   > providing accurate estimations of plant age. Multispectral reflectance data was obtained from different sites where various wheat genotypes were cultivated. This approach involved analyzing incoming
00355|Characterization and identification of lysine crotonylation sites based on machine learning method on both plant and mammalian
   > existed methods, meanwhile more robust when dealing with imbalanced datasets. Moreover, an independent test was carried out, which compared the performance of this study and … small dataset of mammalian and a large-scaled plant dataset respectively. Moreover, a cross-species independent testing was also carried out in this study, which has proved the
00356|Automatic Detection of Oil Palm Tree from UAV Images Based on the Deep Learning Method
   > The overall accuracy of oil palm tree detection was measured from three different sites with 97.06%, 96.58%, and 97.79% correct oil palm detection. The results
00357|Domain Adaptation for Big Data in Agricultural Image Analysis: A Comprehensive Review
   > tasks such as crop health monitoring and pest detection. However, the significant domain shifts caused by environmental changes, different crop types, and diverse data acquisition methods seriously hinder the generalization ability of the model in cross-region, cross-season, and complex agricultural scenarios. This paper explores how domain adaptation (DA) techniques can address these challenges t
00358|Toward the use of protists as bioindicators of multiple stresses in agricultural soils: A case study in vineyard ecosystems
   > potential bioindicators identified in this study can be used across years, in different regions and across different grape varieties. Altogether, soil protist metabarcoding data combined
00359|Water pollution reduction for sustainable urban development using machine learning techniques
   > [no abstract]
00360|Quantifying the relationships of soil properties and crop growth with yield in a NPK fertilizer application maize field
   > [no abstract]
00361|Using drones to detect and quantify wild pig damage and yield loss in corn fields throughout plant growth stages
   > [no term] Abstract Presently, there are an estimated 6.9 million wild pigs ( Sus scrofa ) in the U.S., which cause over US$1 billion in damage to agriculture, environmental impacts, and control
00362|Development of a Predictive Model for Wild Blueberry Harvester Fruit Losses during Harvesting Using Artificial Neural Network
   > best fit for this study. The developed models were validated internally and externally and the best performing configurations were identified based on RMSE, coefficient of … when compared with MR model (R2 = 0.37; RMSE = 0.15%) for external validation dataset. Overall, results of this study suggested that the ANN model
00363|Large-scale spatio-temporal yield estimation via deep learning using satellite and management data fusion in vineyards
   > [no abstract]
00364|DeepAID: a design of smart animal intrusion detection and classification using deep hybrid neural networks
   > [no abstract]
00365|UAV time-series imagery with novel machine learning to estimate heading dates of rice accessions for breeding
   > [no abstract]
00366|Achieving wind power and photovoltaic power prediction: An intelligent prediction system based on a deep learning approach
   > [no abstract]
00367|Cross-species analysis of melanoma enhancer logic using deep learning
   > [no term] Abstract Genomic enhancers form the central nodes of gene regulatory networks by harbouring combinations of transcription factor binding sites. Deciphering the combinatorial code by which these binding sites are assembled
00368|Aphid cluster recognition and detection in the wild using deep learning models
   > [no term] Aphid infestation poses a significant threat to crop production, rural communities, and global food security. While chemical pest control is crucial for maximizing yields, applying chemicals across entire fields is
00369|Evaluation of Machine Learning Classifiers to Predict Compound Mechanism of Action When Transferred across Distinct Cell Lines
   > to evaluate and compare the performance of a classic ensemble-based tree classifier trained on extracted morphological features and a deep learning classifier using convolutional neural … However, our CNN analysis performs worse than an ensemble-based tree classifier when trained on multiple cell lines at predicting compound mechanism of action on an unseen cell line.
00370|Incorporating the Plant Phenological Trajectory into Mangrove Species Mapping with Dense Time Series Sentinel-2 Imagery and the Google Earth Engine Pl
   > practical guideline for the mapping of mangrove or other vegetation species in other regions. However, future work should pay attention to various phenological trajectories of mangrove species in different locations.
00371|Deep learning techniques for in-core perturbation identification and localization of time-series nuclear plant measurements
   > characteristics is unknown. As such, we show the applicability of a self-supervised domain adaptation approach to correctly align the representations learned by the neural network
00372|ST-CFI: Swin Transformer with convolutional feature interactions for identifying plant diseases
   > on PlantDoc. These results underscore the model's robustness and its capacity to generalize across various datasets and real-world conditions. The high accuracy and F1 scores, in conjunction with low loss
00373|Transfer Learning Approach to Seed Taxonomy: A Wild Plant Case Study
   > [no term] Plant taxonomy is the scientific study of the classification and naming of various plant species. It is a branch of biology that aims to categorize and organize the diverse variety
00374|Comparison of different regression models and validation techniques for the assessment of wheat leaf area index from hyperspectral data
   > an empirical–statistical regression model was very important in order to allow the spatial transferability of models to unknown data. Thus, two different validation methods, leave-one-out cross-validation (cv) and independent validation (iv), were performed to determine model accuracy. The LAI and field … = 0.739, 2012: R2cv = 0.85, 2011 and 2012: R2cv = 0.944). Independent validation of the data 
00375|Evaluation and comparison of the precipitation detection ability of multiple satellite products in a typical agriculture area of China
   > the Huanghuaihai Plain. Therefore, the estimation accuracy of satellite-based precipitation products in different regions needs to be improved in the future. This study will contribute
00376|Cross-Crop Transferability of Machine Learning Models for Early Stem Rust Detection in Wheat and Barley Using Hyperspectral Imaging
   > and machine learning for early detection of stem rust and examines the cross-crop transferability of diagnostic models. Hyperspectral datasets of wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and barley … set achieved F1-scores up to 0.962 on wheat and 0.94 on barley. Cross-crop transferability was evaluated using zero-shot cross-domain validation. High model transferability was confirmed, with F1 > 0.94 and minim
00377|Brain Age Prediction Using a Lightweight Convolutional Neural Network
   > on three main aspects: performance accuracy, computational complexity, and adaptability to new, external datasets. Method: We developed a brain-age prediction system using a minimally preprocessed … cropping the brain images. Finally, we employed transfer learning approach to achieve domain adaptation to external, unseen sites. Results:We demonstrated that leveraging the cropped brain images reduc
00378|Semi-Self-Supervised Domain Adaptation: Developing Deep Learning Models with Limited Annotated Data for Wheat Head Segmentation
   > weather and lighting, presents significant challenges to developing deep learning-based techniques that generalize across different conditions. The resource-intensive nature of creating extensive annotated datasets that … adoption of these approaches. To tackle these issues, we introduce a semi-self-supervised domain adaptation technique based on deep convolutional neural networks with a probabili
00379|CLA: A self-supervised contrastive learning method for leaf disease identification with domain adaptation
   > [no abstract]
00380|Investigation of the spatio-temporal transferability of large-scale random forest crop classification models and potential influencing factors
   > and challenging. Model transfer offers a viable solution. This study evaluates the spatio-temporal transferability of machine learning models for large-scale crop classification and examines factors … classification performance across different training regions and years. A Random Forest model trained on Landsat/Sentinel-2 time series and CDL crop labels from three U.S. states
00381|Predicting wildfire burns from big geodata using deep learning
   > [no abstract]
00382|A Generalized Deep Learning Approach for Cross-Crop Plant Disease Detection Using the Plant Village Dataset
   > shown promising results in this field; however, numerous conventional models cannot often generalize well across different crop species and unseen disease types. These limitations hinder their practical deployment in dynamic real-world agricultural environments. In this study, we propose a robust and generalized deep learning-based approach for cross-crop plant disease detection, using the compreh
00383|Ensemble Deep Learning Based on Multi-level Information Enhancement and Greedy Fuzzy Decision for Plant miRNA–lncRNA Interaction Prediction
   > [no abstract]
00384|Prediction of the fluoride contents of different crop species via the random forest algorithm
   > [no abstract]
00385|Auto‐identification of two Sitophilus sibling species on stored wheat using deep convolutional neural network
   > [no term] BACKGROUND: Sitophilus oryzae and Sitophilus zeamais are the two main insect pests that infest stored grain worldwide. Accurate and rapid identification of the two pests is challenging because of their
00386|Assessment of UAV-Based Deep Learning for Corn Crop Analysis in Midwest Brazil
   > [no term] Crop segmentation, the process of identifying and delineating agricultural fields or specific crops within an image, plays a crucial role in precision agriculture, enabling farmers and public managers to make
00387|Modelling and mapping of soil erosion susceptibility using machine learning in a tropical hot sub-humid environment
   > [no abstract]
00388|Long-term electricity demand forecasting of a university campus based on advanced deep learning artificial neural network algorithms
   > plant. This comparison confirmed that the hybrid models performed exceptionally well under real-world conditions. The results show the ability of hybrid models to optimize energy
00389|Deep learning‐based classification and mutation prediction from histopathological images of hepatocellular carcinoma
   > of deep residual learning12 (Methods in the Supporting Information) to overcome the degradation problem, and the probability of each slide or TMA dot was generated … dots and 264 dots of matched normal tissues, were used as the external validation set (Figure 1B, right panel). The whole TCGA dataset was split
00390|The Ability of Sun-Induced Chlorophyll Fluorescence From OCO-2 and MODIS-EVI to Monitor Spatial Variations of Soybean and Maize Yields in the Midweste
   > available SIF products. The framework of this study could be applied to different regions and other types of crops to employ deep learning for crop
00391|Visualization and characterization of agricultural sprays using machine learning based digital inline holography
   > of agricultural spray nozzles. Compared to non-ML methods, our method enhances accuracy, generalizability, and processing speed. Our approach employs two neural networks: a modified U-Net … is used to increase the efficiency of classification and make the algorithm generalizable for different measurement settings. The model is validated via NIST traceable glass
00392|PhenoNet: A two-stage lightweight deep learning framework for real-time wheat phenophase classification
   > [no abstract]
00393|Identifiction of tomato leaf diseases using convolutional neural network with multi-scale and feature reuse
   > and some popular CNN models (AlexNet, SqueezeNet, VGG16, ResNet18, and GoogLeNet) were tested on the two datasets. The results showed that compared to traditional models,
00394|Incremental learning for crop growth parameters estimation and nitrogen diagnosis from hyperspectral data
   > incremental learning, DNNCA model has continuous learning capability and stable estimation on cross-crop (canola, soybean and wheat) field-measured data (LAI:R 2 = 0.64–0.82, RMSE = … remote sensing technology combined with incremental learning is an effective method for cross-crop growth monitoring and nitrogen diagnosis. These results provide a reference and basis
00395|Estimating Winter Cover Crop Biomass in France Using Optical Sentinel-2 Dense Image Time Series and Machine Learning
   > diversity, varied climatic conditions, and the presence of weed vegetation—essential for approximating real-world conditions. Importantly, its applicability extends beyond France, holding potential for global scalability.
00396|A novel fusion of Sentinel-1 and Sentinel-2 with climate data for crop phenology estimation using Machine Learning
   > stages and crops. The spatio-temporal analysis of the model predictions demonstrates its transferability across different spatial and temporal context of Germany. The results indicated that
00397|Leveraging edge computing and deep learning for the real-time identification of bean plant pathologies
   > enhance model robustness in identifying the target classes. In addition, two (2) Out-of-Distribution (ODD) detection techniques, i.e., confidence thresholding and training with an auxiliary class … Our results show that our custom CNN, BeanWatchNet, achieved 90% accuracy when tested on unseen data for the classification of the three (3) target classes, i.e., ALS,
00398|Deep learning for species identification of bolete mushrooms with two-dimensional correlation spectral (2DCOS) images
   > its medicinal properties and nutritional are completely different from one species to another. Therefore, the consumers need a fast and effective detection method to discriminate … set. Then, 203 samples were accurately discriminated in 206 (10%) samples of external validation set. Thirdly, we employed t-SNE method to visualize and evaluate the
00399|CG-ANER: Enhanced contextual embeddings and glyph features-based agricultural named entity recognition
   > [no abstract]
00400|Critical assessment and performance improvement of plant–pathogen protein–protein interaction prediction methods
   > with a precision of 73.8% and a recall of 76.6% in the independent test. To examine the applicability of InterSPPI, we also conducted cross-species and proteome-wide plant-pathogen PPI prediction tests. Taken together, we hope this work
00401|Boosting Rice Disease Diagnosis: A Systematic Benchmark of Five Deep Convolutional Neural Network Models in Precision Agriculture
   > rigorously evaluated under a unified framework, including 5-fold cross-validation and a challenging out-of-distribution (OOD) generalization test. Our results demonstrate a clear performance hierarchy, with DenseNet121 emerging as
00402|SGR-YOLO: a method for detecting seed germination rate in wild rice
   > of bi-directional feature pyramid network (BiFPN) in the Neck part, adopts the generalized intersection over union (GIOU) function as the loss function in the Prediction
00403|Domain adaptation of deep neural networks for tree part segmentation using synthetic forest trees
   > LiDAR scans of synthetic forest trees and combine this with an unsupervised domain adaptation strategy to adapt models trained on synthetic data to LiDAR data captured in real forest environments. Models … platforms in multiple forest environments. Results of our work indicated that models trained on our synthetic data pipeline were competitive with models trained on real data, in particular when 
00404|Review of herbarium plant identification of crop wild relatives using convolutional neural network models
   > [no abstract]
00405|Deep learning for sustainable development across climate, energy, agriculture and urban systems
   > monitoring. At the same time, recurring challenges are identified: data scarcity, limited cross-regional generalizability, deficits in explainability, and ethical concerns surrounding fairness and accountability. The review … and implications of this work are threefold: (i) the development of a cross-domain taxonomy mapping DL methods to sustainability tasks, (ii) benchmarking insights to guide
00406|Annual 30 m soybean yield mapping in Brazil using long-term satellite observations, climate data and machine learning
   > on the basis of 20% withheld test data. The RMSE of the leave-one-year-out assessment ranged from 259 kg/ha to 816 kg/ha. To eliminate the artifacts … yield maps were produced through per-pixel model composition. We applied the models trained on 2001-2019 data to 2020 data and produced a soybean yield map
00407|Prediction of BRCA Gene Mutation in Breast Cancer Based on Deep Learning and Histopathology Images
   > mutation status labeled by a designated breast cancer pathologist. Four models were trained on tiles cropped at 5×, 10×, 20×, and 40× magnification, assuming that … of information for classification. RESULTS: A trained model was validated through an external dataset that contains 17 mutants and 47 wilds. In the external validation dataset, AUCs (95% CI) of DL models that used 40×, 20×,
00408|A deep learning framework for mitigating agricultural pollution: Quantifying and managing herbicide drift risk to non-target crops from UASS spraying
   > [no abstract]
00409|Powdery Mildew Caused by Erysiphe cruciferarum on Wild Rocket (Diplotaxis tenuifolia): Hyperspectral Imaging and Machine Learning Modeling for Non-Des
   > [no term] Wild rocket is a widely cultivated salad crop. Typical signs and symptoms of powdery mildew were observed on leaves of Diplotaxis tenuifolia, likely favored by climatic conditions occurring in a
00410|Predicting rice phenology and optimal sowing dates in temperate regions using machine learning
   > the risk of cold‐temperatures during the microspore growth phase, which can severely degrade yield in temperate rice growing regions.
00411|Deep data analytics for genetic engineering of diatoms linking genotype to phenotype via machine learning
   > [no term] Abstract Genome engineering for materials synthesis is a promising avenue for manufacturing materials with unique properties under ambient conditions. Biomineralization in diatoms, unicellular algae that use silica to construct micron-scale
00412|An effective adaptive deep learning method combined with a hyperspectral system to identify the soybeans quality from different regions
   > hyperspectral system offers an effective technical approach for identifying soybean quality across different regions.
00413|Machine learning to predict biomass sorghum yields under future climate scenarios
   > as the most important predictors of sorghum productivity. Our results showed a decreasing trend of sorghum yields over future years (on average 2.7% from 2018 to 2099), with greater decline under
00414|Future projection of droughts in Morocco and potential impact on agriculture
   > far future 2076-2100. The obtained results indicate that there will be a decrease in values of the precipitation and an increase in values of the … the drought severity will increase. The spatial analysis of SPEI values in different regions of Morocco demonstrates that the northern part of the country has
00415|CROPUP: Historical products are all you need? An end-to-end cross-year crop map updating framework without the need for in situ samples
   > [no abstract]
00416|Crop Protection from Animals Using Deep Learning
   > [no term] Crop damage caused by animal’s attacks is one of the major threats in reducing the crop yield. Due to the expansion of cultivated land into previous wildlife habitat, crop raiding
00417|Wet and Dry Snow Detection Using Sentinel-1 SAR Data for Mountainous Areas with a Machine Learning Technique
   > on freely accessible spaceborne synthetic aperture radar (SAR) data. The approach is transferable on a global scale as well as for different land cover types … cover classes, the accuracy and F-measure increases to 0.80 and 0.75. In cross-location model set, the accuracy can also be maintained at 0.80 with non-forest
00418|Predictive metabolomics of multiple Atacama plant species unveils a core set of generic metabolites for extreme climate resilience
   > to harsh environments. Here, we combined multispecies ecological metabolomics and machine learning‐based generalized linear model predictions to link the metabolome to the plant environment in … metabolome as an excellent integrative predictor of environmental fluctuations. These metabolites were independent of the species and validated both statistically and biologically using an independent data
00419|Unsupervised domain adaptation for early detection of drought stress in hyperspectral images
   > by transferring the prior knowledge within an existing model into a related target domain, where no label information is available. We propose a two-step transformation
00420|Neural networks to learn protein sequence-function relationships from deep mutational scanning data
   > [no term] ABSTRACT The mapping from protein sequence to function is highly complex, making it challenging to predict how sequence changes will affect a protein’s behavior and properties. We present a supervised
00421|A Generic Approach for Wheat Disease Classification and Verification Using Expert Opinion for Knowledge-Based Decisions
   > However, the local knowledge of one agricultural region is not utilized in other regions due to the unavailability of knowledge sharing platforms. Agricultural research also suggests that crop production has mainly decreased due to diseases, methods of cultivation, irrigation, and lack of local agricultural
00422|A Cross-Crop and Cross-Regional Generalized Deep Learning Framework for Intelligent Disease Detection and Economic Decision Support in Horticulture
   > management; laboratory images offer controlled illumination and background for stable supervision and cross-crop feature learning. Our objective is robust cross-crop, cross-regional diagnosis and economically rational control. To this end, a model named CCGD-Net … a multi-scale perception module (MSFE) to produce hierarchical representations. It includes a cross-domain alignment module (CDAM) that
00423|MetastaSite: Predicting metastasis to different sites using deep learning with gene expression data
   > [no term] Deep learning has massive potential in predicting phenotype from different omics profiles. However, deep neural networks are viewed as black boxes, providing predictions without explanation. Therefore, the requirements for these
00424|Assessing the risk of vibration-induced fatigue in process pipework using convolutional neural networks
   > classifying vibration states. The tested two-dimensional (2D) CNN architectures include a 2D-CNN trained on CWT images, a 2D-CNN trained on CWT, RMS, and Kurtosis features combined into red–green–blue (RGB) images, and … directly on raw acceleration data. The (1D- and 2D-) CNN models were trained on data obtained from multiple operational plants across different countries, ensuring a diverse datas
00425|Typha latifolia (broadleaf cattail) as bioindicator of different types of pollution in aquatic ecosystems—application of self-organizing feature map (
   > [no abstract]
00426|Spectral signatures in the UV range can be combined with secondary plant metabolites by deep learning to characterize barley–powdery mildew interactio
   > [no term] In recent studies, the potential of hyperspectral sensors for the analysis of plant-pathogen interactions was expanded to the ultraviolet range (UV; 200-380 nm) to monitor stress processes in plants. A
00427|A Lightweight Winter Wheat Planting Area Extraction Model Based on Improved DeepLabv3+ and CBAM
   > time than the other four models. The model has been tested in other regions, and the results show that it has good generalization ability. The model in general ensures the extraction accuracy while significantly reducing
00428|Cropland carbon stocks driven by soil characteristics, rainfall and elevation
   > of SOC on precipitation showed a trend of increasing and then slowly decreasing. In addition, the grid-based SEM results clearly presented the direct and indirect … SOC accumulation. We expect our proposed modelling approach can be applied to other regions and offer new insights, as a reference for mitigating cropland soil
00429|Enhancing practicality of deep learning for crop disease identification under field conditions: insights from model evaluation and crop‐specific appro
   > DenseNets, ResNets, MobileNetV3, EfficientNet, and VGG Nets. RESULTS Our results revealed a decrease in accuracy across all models from Lab (98.22%) to Mixed (91.76%) to
00430|Modern graph neural networks do worse than classical greedy algorithms in solving combinatorial optimization problems like maximum independent set
   > [no abstract]
00431|Improving active canopy sensor-based in-season rice nitrogen status diagnosis and recommendation using multi-source data fusion with machine learning
   > [no abstract]
00432|Identification of novel X anthomonas euvesicatoria type III effector proteins by a machine‐learning approach
   > xopAP gene reduced the severity of disease symptoms in infected plants. A decrease in cell death and chlorophyll content was observed in pepper leaves inoculated
00433|Ultra-short-term distributed PV power forecasting for virtual power plant considering data-scarce scenarios
   > data-rich region and data-scarce region, respectively. Specifically, graph representation learning and adversarial domain adaptation techniques are utilized to learn domain-invariant graph embedding features, which are
00434|Mapping agricultural tile drainage in the US Midwest using explainable random forest machine learning and satellite imagery
   > been an increase in tile drained area across the US Midwest and other regions worldwide due to agricultural expansion, intensification, and climate variability. Despite this
00435|Cross-species prediction of histone modifications in plants via deep learning
   > models have achieved success in predicting regulatory features from DNA sequence, their cross-species generalizability in plants remains largely unexplored. RESULTS: We systematically evaluate the ability of … predictive performance and strong agreement between predictions and experimental ChIP-seq profiles. However, cross-species predictions show reduced performance with increasing phylogenetic d
00436|Learning spectral-spatial representations from VHR images for fine-scale crop type mapping: A case study of rice-crayfish field extraction in South Ch
   > [no abstract]
00437|Artificial Intelligence Algorithms for Rapeseed Fields Mapping Using Sentinel-1 Time Series: Temporal Transfer Scenario and Ground Sampling Constraint
   > 500 and 1000 samples in a study site of 800 km2). Model transferability is tested across years. The impact of S1 image count on transfer … 1000, RF and InceptionTime stand out with high accuracy (F1-score>90%). When employing different years for training and testing with ample sample sizes, all four algorithms
00438|Accurate cross-species 5mC detection for Oxford Nanopore sequencing in plants with DeepPlant
   > in plants is limited by the scarcity of high-methylation positive samples, reducing generalization across species. Dorado, the only tool for plant 5mC detection on the … Dorado. DeepPlant also demonstrates superior single-molecule accuracy and F1 score, offering strong generalization for plant epigenetics research. Existing method struggles with CHH methylation detection from
00439|Interseasonal transfer learning for crop mapping using Sentinel-1 data
   > and knowledge that past seasons’ classification models provided. This paper assessed different temporal transferring approaches, including transfer learning, together with traditional crop mapping approach to … and evaluated using highly dense time series of Sentinel-1 data. Source and target domain were respectively represented by two sets, 2017–2020 and 2021 season data,
00440|Powerful and interpretable behavioural features for quantitative phenotyping of Caenorhabditis elegans
   > [no term] Behaviour is a sensitive and integrative readout of nervous system function and therefore an attractive measure for assessing the effects of mutation or drug treatment on animals. Video data provide
00441|What’s next in agri-vision: A review of Vision Transformers and Vision Mamba in crop management
   > [no abstract]
00442|Critical evaluation of the effects of a cross-validation strategy and machine learning optimization on the prediction accuracy and transferability of 
   > this study was to investigate an appropriate cross-validation (CV) strategy for establishing transferable UAV-based yield prediction models across different spatial domains (i.e., meeting extrapolation mapping … (random CV), cluster-based spatial splitting (spatial CV), and field-specific hold-out data splitting (leave-one-field-out CV). Model optimization was also examined to determine whether th
00443|Enhanced plant disease classification via wild horse optimizer and convolutional attention-bidirectional long short term memory
   > [no abstract]
00444|Breeding drought-tolerant crops for sustainable agriculture
   > With the escalating impacts of climate change, drought stress (DS) is significantly decreasing water accessibility and availability, causing substantial direct and indirect economic repercussions within
00445|Early detection of nicosulfuron toxicity and physiological prediction in maize using multi-branch deep learning models and hyperspectral imaging
   > analysis development (SPAD) and water content, respectively. Additionally, the model exhibited higher generalizability across datasets from different years and seasons, which significantly surpassed support vector machines, AlexNet, and partial
00446|Mapping and quantifying agricultural irrigation in heterogeneous landscapes using Google Earth Engine
   > region. The methodology followed in this study can be applied to any other regions around the world with similar landscapes and climatic conditions.
00447|Research on species identification of wild grape leaves based on deep learning
   > [no abstract]
00448|Analysis and Predicting the Trend of Land Use/Cover Changes Using Neural Network and Systematic Points Statistical Analysis (SPSA)
   > [no abstract]
00449|Analysis of flash droughts in China using machine learning
   > droughts compared to slowly developing droughts, along with asymmetrical compound influences in different regions of China. For the Xinjiang region, P deficit played a dominant
00450|Applying the latest advances in genomics and phenomics for trait discovery in polyploid wheat
   > [no term] Summary Improving traits in wheat has historically been challenging due to its large and polyploid genome, limited genetic diversity and in‐field phenotyping constraints. However, within recent years many of these
00451|Enhancing domain adaptation for plant diseases detection through Masked Image Consistency in Multi-Granularity Alignment
   > [no abstract]
00452|MetaComNet: A random forest‐based framework for making spatial predictions of plant–pollinator interactions
   > [no term] Abstract Predicting plant–pollinator interaction networks over space and time will improve our understanding of how environmental change is likely to impact the functioning of ecosystems. Here we propose a framework
00453|Economic and Biological Conditions Influence the Sustainability of Harvest of Wild Animals and Plants in Developing Countries
   > [no abstract]
00454|AgriSen-COG, a Multicountry, Multitemporal Large-Scale Sentinel-2 Benchmark Dataset for Crop Mapping Using Deep Learning
   > countries (Austria, Belgium, Spain, Denmark, and the Netherlands), targeting the problem of domain adaptation. Second, it is multitemporal and multiyear (2019–2020), therefore enabling analysis based
00455|Cross-dataset evaluation of deep learning models for crack classification in structural surfaces
   > models have shown promising results in automating this process, their ability to generalize across diverse datasets remains a significant challenge. This study investigates how well deep learning models generalize for crack classification across varied datasets and identifies which models perform best … reaching 100% on both SCD and CPC. However, cross-testing revealed substantial performance degr
00456|Automatic wild bird repellent system that is based on deep-learning-based wild bird detection and integrated with a laser rotation mechanism
   > [no term] Wild bird repulsion is critical in agriculture because it helps avoid agricultural food losses and mitigates the risk of avian influenza. Wild birds transmit avian influenza in poultry farms and
00457|Integrating genotype and weather variables for soybean yield prediction using deep learning
   > seed oil, seed protein and maturity enabling prediction of genotypic responses in unseen environments. This approach presents an exciting avenue for genotype x environment studies
00458|Automated in-season mapping of winter wheat in China with training data generation and model transfer
   > [no abstract]
00459|Hierarchical semantic alignment heterogeneous knowledge distillation model for smart agriculture crop leaf disease recognition
   > [no abstract]
00460|Detection, Diagnosis, and Preventive Management of the Bacterial Plant Pathogen Pseudomonas syringae
   > [no term] Plant diseases caused by the pathogen Pseudomonas syringae are serious problems for various plant species worldwide. Accurate detection and diagnosis of P. syringae infections are critical for the effective management
00461|Optimizing integration techniques for UAS and satellite image data in precision agriculture — a review
   > should delve into advanced fusion methodologies, incorporating machine learning algorithms, and conduct cross-crop application studies to broaden applicability and tailor insights for specific crops.
00462|An online machine learning-based sensors clustering system for efficient and cost-effective environmental monitoring in controlled environment agricul
   > [no abstract]
00463|CROP YIELD PREDICTION USING SELECTED MACHINE LEARNING ALGORITHMS
   > techniques in predicting crop yields using data from Nigeria. Previous efforts lacked transferability across crops and localities; this research aimed to devise modular and reusable
00464|Semantic segmentation of landcover for cropland mapping and area estimation using Machine Learning techniques
   > label identification of croplands, rivers, buildings, and backgrounds. The selected features are transferred to a machine learning model for the semantic segmentation process. The methodology … Random forest has given the best result for segmenting the image into different regions with 99% training accuracy and 90% test accuracy. The results are
00465|Bridging real and simulated data for cross-spatial- resolution vegetation segmentation with application to rice crops
   > [no abstract]
00466|Cascaded deep network systems with linked ensemble components for underwater fish detection in the wild
   > train and test our system for a dataset of 18 videos taken in the wild. In our dataset, there are around 20 to 100 fish … cascade. Our findings in this experiment regarding ensemble system architectures can be generalized to other object detection applications.
00467|Comparison of Image Preprocessing Strategies for Convolutional Neural Network-Based Growth Stage Classification of Butterhead Lettuce in Industrial Pl
   > ResNet50-based transfer learning model was trained and evaluated on each dataset, and cross-domain performance was assessed to understand generalization capability. Models trained and tested within the same domain achieved high accuracy (Model 1: 99.65%; Model 2: 97.75%). However, cross-domain evaluations revealed asymmetric performance degradation—Model 1-CDE (trained on raw images, tested on pre
00468|Modulations of surface thermal environment and agricultural activity on intraseasonal variations of summer diurnal temperature range in the Yangtze Ri
   > the influences of human activities on regional climate and environmental change for other regions of the world that experience various external forcings.
00469|Global mapping of oil palm planting year from 1990 to 2021
   > [no term] Abstract. Oil palm is a controversial crop, primarily because it is associated with negative environmental impacts such as tropical deforestation. Mapping the crop and its characteristics, such as age, is
00470|DeepCropNet: a deep spatial-temporal learning framework for county-level corn yield estimation
   > quantifying the temporal cumulative effect of crop growth and spatial variances across different regions remains challenging for large-scale crop yield estimation. In this study, a
00471|MAR-YOLOv9: A multi-dataset object detection method for agricultural fields based on YOLOv9
   > technology, object detection has been widely applied in various fields. However, in cross-dataset object detection, conventional deep learning models often face performance degradation issues. This is particularly true in the agricultural field, where there is … with diverse scenarios. To address these issues, this study proposes a lightweight, cross-dataset enhanced object detection method for th
00472|A novel classifier for improving wetland mapping by integrating image fusion techniques and ensemble machine learning classifiers
   > image-fusion based machine learning classifiers could be used for wetland mapping in other regions of the world, as well as for mapping river dynamics, forest
00473|Deep Learning for Convolution Neural Networks and Recurrent Neural Networks: A Review
   > [no term] Many with computational models that allow deep learning representations to learn to make processing layers. Summary of multiple levels with information. These methods have dramatically improved many fields like speech
00474|Application of Face Recognition Method Under Deep Learning Algorithm in Embedded Systems
   > 95.78%, significantly better than the unimproved MTCNN algorithm. On the Labeled Faces in the Wild (LFW) dataset, LCNN provides a correct rate of 98.13%, and
00475|Enhancing Cross‐Crop Plant Disease Detection on Complex Field Images Through Dataset Merging, Transfer Learning and Ensemble Averaging of Convolutiona
   > EdenLibrary (EL)—based on disease common names rather than crop‐disease pairs to improve generalisation. PV provides a large volume of lab images with limited variability, whereas … transfer learning on the reorganised datasets. Results show that disease‐common‐name‐based labelling enhances generalisation to unseen plant species while maintaining performance on known species. Moreover, combining P
00476|Segmentation and Proportion Extraction of Crop, Crop Residues, and Soil Using Digital Images and Deep Learning
   > from wheat-soybean rotation fields using mobile phones to create calibration, validation, and independent validation datasets. We developed a deep learning model named crop–crop residue–soil segmentation … achieved an mIoU of 92.73% and a PA of 96.23% in the independent validation dataset, surpassing traditional SVM and RF models. The RMSE for the
00477|Toward Cross-Species Crop Se Content Prediction Using Random Forest Modeling
   > accurate, efficient, and reliable in predicting the Se content of crops. In cross-species crop prediction, which refers to the simultaneous cultivation and analysis of multiple … the random forest model demonstrated superior performance, marking a significant breakthrough in cross-species crop research. This approach effectively eliminates the tedious process of conducting repetitive
00478|CropHealthNet: Potato Disease Detection Using Depthwise Separable Convolutional Neural Networks
   > [no abstract]
00479|Optimal Solar Plant Site Identification Using GIS and Remote Sensing: Framework and Case Study
   > PVOUT. The proposed framework also has the potential to be applied to other regions nationally and internationally. This work contributes a reproducible GIS workflow for
00480|Development and assessment of a lysophospholipid-based deep learning model to discriminate geographical origins of white rice
   > to China. A total of 126 white rice of 30 cultivars from different regions were utilized for the method development and validation. By using direct
00481|Three decades of Landsat-derived spring surface water dynamics in an agricultural wetland mosaic; Implications for migratory shorebirds
   > used to optimize thresholds for time series analysis and near-real-time mapping in other regions, and requires only marginally more time than generating a confusion matrix.
00482|Environmental drivers and spatial prediction of forest fires in the Western Ghats biodiversity hotspot, India: An ensemble machine learning approach
   > [no abstract]
00483|An RGB based deep neural network for high fidelity Fusarium head blight phenotyping in wheat
   > to quantify FHB in images taken with different camera orientations in an unseen year, which demonstrates strong generalizability. This innovative pipeline represents a breakthrough in FHB phenotyping, offering precise and
00484|Rice Planting Area Identification Based on Multi-Temporal Sentinel-1 SAR Images and an Attention U-Net Model
   > growth. In addition, considering the diversity of the rice growth period in different years caused by the different climatic conditions and other factors, a transfer … to apply the well-trained model to monitor the rice planting areas in different years. The experimental results show that the proposed method can significantly improve
00485|Forecasting industrial aging processes with machine learning methods
   > [no abstract]
00486|Unleashing the power of machine learning and remote sensing for robust seasonal drought monitoring: A stacking ensemble approach
   > [no abstract]
00487|ASSESSING THE TRANSFERABILITY OF MACHINE LEARNING ALGORITHMS USING CLOUD COMPUTING AND EARTH OBSERVATION DATASETS FOR AGRICULTURAL LAND USE/COVER MAPP
   > change detection analysis. Main objective of this study was to assess the transferability of the machine learning algorithms for land use/cover mapping using cloud computing … Classification and Regression Tree (CART) were selected to evaluate the performance in transferability for agricultural land use classification using GEE. Seven land use/cover classes such
00488|Deep image features sensing with multilevel fusion for complex convolution neural networks & cross domain benchmarks
   > [no term] Efficient image retrieval from a variety of datasets is crucial in today's digital world. Visual properties are represented using primitive image signatures in Content Based Image Retrieval (CBIR). Feature vectors
00489|Integration of Random Forest with population‐based outlier analyses provides insight on the genomic basis and evolution of run timing in Chinook salmo
   > has provided initial insight into how divergence in a trait has occurred in the wild.
00490|Explainable AI-Based Early Detection of Fruit Diseases Using a Multimodal Image Fusion Cross-Species Deep Learning Framework
   > [no abstract]
00491|Background-Aware Domain Adaptation for Plant Counting
   > to correct the model behavior. This problem setting is also called unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA). Despite UDA has been a long-standing topic in machine learning … analyzing the failure patterns of these methods, we propose a novel background-aware domain adaptation (BADA) module to address the drawbacks. We show that BADA can easily fit into object counting models to improve the cross-domai
00492|On the Minimum Dataset Requirements for Fine-Tuning an Object Detector for Arable Crop Plant Counting: A Case Study on Maize Seedlings
   > algorithm as baseline. Models were tested with varying training sources (in-domain vs. out-of-distribution data), training dataset sizes (10–150 images), and annotation quality levels (10–100%). Our results demonstrate that no model trained on out-of-distribution data achieved acceptable performance, regardless of dataset size. In contrast, models trained on in-domain data reached the benchmark wi
00493|Improving EfficientNet_b0 for distinguishing rice from different origins: A deep learning method for geographical traceability in precision agricultur
   > rice from different origins. First, Ji-Japonica 830 rice was collected from ten different regions, and a total of 30,000 images were obtained through image segmentation
00494|Multistream STGAN: A Spatiotemporal Image Fusion Model With Improved Temporal Transferability
   > [no term] Spatiotemporal satellite image fusion aims to generate remote sensing images satisfying both high spatial and temporal resolution by integrating different satellite imagery datasets with distinct spatial and temporal resolutions. Such
00495|Evaluating the ability of convolutional neural networks for transfer learning in Pinus radiata cover predictions
   > studies have been limited in their spatial variability and their assessments of transferability or transfer learning to new sectors, hindering the ability to use these … by searching among different architectures and models, maximizing the evaluation in an independent data set. The results showed that transfer learning is better when multi-site
00496|The effect of deep-tillage depths on crop yield: A global meta-analysis
   > critical role in solving soil compaction - a global problem of soil degradation. However, to date, there are few research reported about tillage depth, and … optimum tillage depth of WMS across the world, while it varies with different regions. Furthermore, higher crop yields observed in areas with a humid climate,
00497|Cross-domain fault diagnosis method for nuclear power plant bearings based on deep transfer learning under small sample conditions
   > [no abstract]
00498|Unveiling Salt Tolerance Mechanisms in Plants: Integrating the KANMB Machine Learning Model With Metabolomic and Transcriptomic Analysis
   > [no term] Salt stress presents a substantial threat to cereal crop productivity, especially in coastal agricultural regions where salinity levels are high. Addressing this challenge requires innovative approaches to uncover genetic resources
00499|ViX-MangoEFormer: An Enhanced Vision Transformer–EfficientFormer and Stacking Ensemble Approach for Mango Leaf Disease Recognition with Explainable Ar
   > Deep-Learning (DL) solutions have shown promise but suffer from imbalanced datasets, modest generalization, and limited interpretability. To address these challenges, this study introduces the ViX-MangoEFormer, … has improved the performance of every architecture compared to its non-augmented version. Cross-domain tests on morphologically similar crop leaves confirmed strong generalization. Our fi
00500|Fully automatic segmentation on prostate MR images based on cascaded fully convolution network
   > in the peripheral zone (PZ) and there exist different evaluation criteria for different regions in the Prostate Imaging Reporting and Data System (PI‐RADS). Purpose To
00501|Unsupervised domain adaptation for automated knee osteoarthritis phenotype classification
   > techniques to address this challenge. This study demonstrates the utility of unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) for automated OA phenotype classification. Methods: We collected 318 and
00502|An Offline Biotic Stress Recognition Tool for Rice Plants Through Domain Shift
   > [no abstract]
00503|Identification of early abandonment in cropland through radar‐based coherence data and application of a Random‐Forest model
   > state and can therefore be applied once developed and tested further in other regions to larger areas of the EU where land abandonment is serious
00504|Evaluation of rice bacterial blight severity from lab to field with hyperspectral imaging technique
   > [no term] Hyperspectral imaging technique combined with machine learning is a powerful tool for the evaluation of disease phenotype in rice disease-resistant breeding. However, the current studies are almost carried out in
00505|Segmentation of XCO 2 images with deep learning: application to synthetic plumes from cities and power plants
   > an image representing the positions of the targeted plume. Our models are trained on hourly 1 km simulated XCO 2 fields in the regions of … thresholding in two contexts, namely (1) where the model is trained and tested on data from the same region and (2) where the model is trained and tested in two different regions. In both contexts, our method outperforms the usual segmentation technique based 
00506|Comparison of soil moisture mapping techniques: Evaluating dataset variability and spatial transferability across regions
   > to estimate SM at the field scale. To assess model reliability and transferability, reference data from two field sites were split using two approaches: (1)
00507|Enhancing performance of machine learning tasks on edge-cloud infrastructures: A cross-domain Internet of Things based framework
   > management across three application domains, highlighting its adaptability and potential in diverse cross-domain IoT-based environments. • EO-GNH optimizes AI application placement in edge computing environments
00508|PMLPNet: Classifying Multi-Class Pests in Wild Environment via a Novel Convolutional Neural Network
   > images, while patch probability-based visualizations highlight heterogeneity within pest images. Validation on external datasets (IP102 and PlantDoc) confirms the robust generalization performance of PMLPNet. In summary, our research advances intelligent pest classification techniques,
00509|Machine Learning Exciton Hamiltonians in Light-Harvesting Complexes
   > set. Moreover, the accuracy in predicting the effects of the environment is tested on the simulation of the small changes observed in the absorption spectra
00510|Nitrogen management with reinforcement learning and crop growth models
   > standard practices set by domain experts. In addition, we evaluate, as an out-of-distribution test, whether the obtained policies are resilient against a change in climate
00511|Neural Network Based Image Classification for Animal Intrusion Detection System
   > [no term] Every year a large number of resources are lost and human life gets in danger due to human-animal clashing in the forest zone and agriculture fields. People end up losing
00512|Modelling G×E with historical weather information improves genomic prediction in new environments
   > from environmental and genomic covariates, but existing works have not shown that generalization to new environments and years without access to in-season data is possible and practical
00513|Fault supervision of nuclear research reactor systems using artificial neural networks: A review with results
   > [no abstract]
00514|Predicting spatial and temporal variability in soybean yield using deep learning and open source data
   > Uruguay. The DL architectures were assessed under two testing strategies: across-fields and across-years. We compared results from DL architectures against a baseline that uses a … DL architectures encountered more challenges with temporal extrapolation (RRMSE 51 % in across-years). There were no substantial differences in performance among the DL architectures. The
00515|Application of a hybrid model based on GA–ELMAN neural networks and VMD double processing in water level prediction
   > the predicted water level is corrected. Using three groups of data from different sites, 10 models are established to compare the performance of the model.
00516|Remote sensing and TerraClimate datasets for wheat yield prediction using machine learning
   > challenge is further exacerbated by the impacts of climate change and environmental degradation, much of which is associated with human activities. Yield prediction is vital … its easy access make this approach applicable to various crop types and other regions, thus unlocking the limitation related to the lack of on-site data
00517|Untargeted Metabolomics and Soil Community Metagenomics Analyses Combined with Machine Learning Evaluation Uncover Geographic Differences in Ginseng f
   > [no term] Panax ginseng C.A. Meyer, known as the "King of Herbs," has been used as a nutritional supplement for both food and medicine with the functions of relieving fatigue and improving
00518|Convolutional Neural Networks and Outline Analyses for Archaeobotanical Studies of Domestication and Subspecific Identification
   > [no term] Abstract The identification of archaeological fruits and seeds is crucial for understanding the relationships between humans and plants within the cultural and biological history of both wild and cultivated species.
00519|Early Detection of Wild Rocket Tracheofusariosis Using Hyperspectral Image-Based Machine Learning
   > [no term] Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. raphani is responsible for wilting wild rocket (Diplotaxis tenuifolia L. [D.C.]). A machine learning model based on hyperspectral data was constructed to monitor disease progression. Thus,
00520|Neuronal network analyses reveal novel associations between volatile organic compounds and sensory properties of tomato fruits
   > [no term] The process of tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) breeding has affected negatively the fruit organoleptic properties and this is evident when comparing modern cultivars with heirloom varieties. Flavor of tomato fruit is
00521|Estimating Rice Leaf Nitrogen Concentration: Influence of Regression Algorithms Based on Passive and Active Leaf Reflectance
   > passive and active spectral measurements of rice leaves of different varieties at different locations and time (Yongyou 4949, Suizhou, 2014, Yangliangyou 6, Wuhan, 2015). Results
00522|Intelligent analysis of maleic hydrazide using a simple electrochemical sensor coupled with machine learning
   > flexibility, 3D porous structure, large specific surface area, and preferable conductivity. A data partitioning technique was proposed for the optimal MH concentration ranges by selecting
00523|E-AlexNet: quality evaluation of strawberry based on machine learning
   > [no abstract]
00524|A Lightweight Crop Pest Classification Method Based on Improved MobileNet-V2 Model
   > optimizer and mixup data augmentation techniques to enhance the model’s convergence and generalization capabilities. Secondly, the Adaptive Spatial Group-Wise Enhanced (ASGE) attention mechanism is introduced … varying sizes to enhance classification performance for pests of different scales under real-world conditions. Lastly, the model’s activation function and overall architecture are optimized
00525|Based on machine learning: Energy consumption optimization and energy efficiency evaluation for photovoltaic electro-fenton technology in wastewater t
   > [no abstract]
00526|Comparison of three machine learning models for the prediction of hourly PV output power in Saudi Arabia
   > may be used as a reference for predicting PV output power in different regions of the country.
00527|CycleGAN based confusion model for cross-species plant disease image migration
   > [no term] The identification and classification of plant diseases is of great significance to ecological protection and deep learning methods have made a great of progress in the common plant diseases identification
00528|A New Deep Learning-based Dynamic Paradigm Towards Open-World Plant Disease Detection
   > specific dataset. This confinement restricts the model's adaptability when encountering samples from unseen disease categories. Additionally, there is a challenge of knowledge degradation for these static learning settings, as the acquisition of new knowledge tends … never been seen during the model training phase and gradually learn these unseen diseases through dynamic knowledge updates in the n
00529|Detection of soil-borne wheat mosaic virus using hyperspectral imaging: from lab to field scans and from hyperspectral to multispectral data
   > on field data. Infection in the field was successfully identified using classifiers trained on the entire spectrum of the hyperspectral data acquired in a lab … being 64.9%. Using a subset of wavelengths, simulating multispectral data, the accuracy dropped by only 3 percentage points to 61.9%. This research shows the potential
00530|A systematic review of deep learning-based object detection methods for crop grading
   > four domains: intelligent annotation systems, environmental adaptability enhancement, model compression techniques, and cross-domain transfer learning. This review provides a comprehensive technical framework for deep learning-driven
00531|Prediction of active ingredients in Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge. based on soil elements and artificial neural network
   > the composition and content of active ingredients of S. miltiorrhiza planted in different regions of the soil environment are also quite different, which adds new
00532|Weather determines the occurrence of wheat stem base diseases in biogas cropping systems
   > mixtures, and phacelia. Field trials with five rotations were established at four different sites in Germany, whereby winter wheat was grown at the end of … describing weather, soil productivity and rotation. Subsequently, disease incidences were modeled with generalized linear models. Disease incidence was high for Fusarium foot rot (47%), moderately
00533|StomataScorer: a portable and high‐throughput leaf stomata trait scorer combined with deep learning and an improved CV model
   > [no term] Abstract To measure stomatal traits automatically and nondestructively, a new method for detecting stomata and extracting stomatal traits was proposed. Two portable microscopes with different resolutions (TipScope with a 40×
00534|USTAnet: A Neural Network for Enhanced Resolution Generalization in Kilometer-Level Rice Yield Prediction
   > longer aligns with the actual size of target objects, leading to performance degradation due to mismatched receptive fields. To address the challenge posed by spatial resolution variation on the generalization ability of remote sensing DL models, this study proposes a DL model, … and multidimensional feature integrator blocks. These designs contribute to USTAnet’s enhanced resolution generalizatio
00535|Deep phenotyping reveals movement phenotypes in mouse neurodevelopmental models
   > METHODS: We used advances in computer vision and deep learning, namely a generalized form of high-dimensional statistical analysis, to develop a framework for characterizing mouse … signatures of behavior classes. We measured spatial and temporal habituation to a new environment across minutes and days, different types of self-grooming, locomotion and gait.
00536|Non-host plant odors influence the tritrophic interaction between tomato, its foliar herbivore Tuta absoluta and mirid predator Nesidiocoris tenuis
   > [no term] The tomato leafminer, Tuta absoluta is a destructive invasive pest of cultivated tomato and other Solanaceae plants, with yield losses of 80-100%. Mirid predators are key natural enemies of T.
00537|Research on predicting photosynthetic pigments in tomato seedling leaves based on near-infrared hyperspectral imaging and machine learning
   > [no abstract]
00538|Estimation of spinach (Spinacia oleracea) seed yield with 2D UAV data and deep learning
   > future studies, the algorithm should be trained with more spinach images from different locations and under varying weather conditions to allow it to generalize for the crop worldwide. It can be concluded, until further research, that
00539|Automated Classification of Body MRI Sequences Using Convolutional Neural Networks
   > its performance was analyzed when trained with different training data quantities. The out-of-distribution (OOD) robustness on data acquired by a Philips scanner was also measured. … with smaller input volumes through downsampling or cropping. Finally, the model was trained on combined data from both Siemens and Philips scanners to bridge the
00540|Prediction of O3 in the respiratory system of children using the artificial neural network model and with selection of input based on gamma test, Ahva
   > [no abstract]
00541|From blender to farm: Transforming controlled environment agriculture with synthetic data and SwinUNet for precision crop monitoring
   > SwinUNet as a segmentation method, and Deep Domain Confusion was utilized for domain adaptation. The trained model was then tested on real images from the Strawberry Digital Images dataset. The performance on
00542|Using a random forest model for cross-species prediction of crop arsenic contamination
   > [no abstract]
00543|An algorithm for early rice area mapping from satellite remote sensing data in southwestern Guangdong in China based on feature optimization and rando
   > [no abstract]
00544|Electrical imaging of soil water availability to grapevine: a benchmark experiment of several machine-learning techniques
   > [no abstract]
00545|DeepLearnMOR: a deep-learning framework for fluorescence image-based classification of organelle morphology
   > [no term] The proper biogenesis, morphogenesis, and dynamics of subcellular organelles are essential to their metabolic functions. Conventional techniques for identifying, classifying, and quantifying abnormalities in organelle morphology are largely manual and
00546|Integrating Federated Learning and Explainable AI for Plant Disease Detection: A Systematic Review of Recent Advances in Precision Agriculture
   > centralized training. Despite strong results in controlled conditions, many models struggle to generalize under real-field variability due to data imbalance and environmental factors. Emerging directions include lightweight edge architectures, domain adaptation, and unified explainable-federated frameworks. Overall, this review identifies FL and XAI
00547|Hyperspectral Imaging for Identification of an Invasive Plant Mikania micrantha Kunth
   > SG-PCA-RF and SG-PCA-SVM might represent two promising methods for recognizing M. micrantha in the wild.
00548|Predictive drivers and transferability of multi-scale machine learning based crop yield prediction under drought across European and Asian climates
   > food reserves proactively. Machine learning models struggle to capture the complexity of real-world conditions, particularly during extreme events such as droughts, as these events are … smaller: 4.59 % (RMSE) and 6.37 % (MAPE) for wheat, with a decrease in performance for barley. The study also analyzed the spatial transferability by applying regionally trained models across sites without retrain
00549|ST-YOLO: a deep learning based intelligent identification model for salt tolerance of wild rice seedlings
   > [no term] Background: In response to the limited models for salt tolerance detection in wild rice, the subtle leaf features, and the difficulty in capturing salt stress characteristics, resulting in low recognition
00550|Wild Blueberry Harvesting Losses Predicted with Selective Machine Learning Algorithms
   > [no term] The production of wild blueberries (Vaccinium angustifolium) contributes 112.2 million dollars yearly to Canada’s revenue, which can be further increased by reducing harvest losses. A precise prediction of blueberry harvest
00551|Deep machine learning for cell segmentation and quantitative analysis of radial plant growth
   > [no term] Plants produce the major part of terrestrial biomass and are long-term deposits of atmospheric carbon. This capacity is to a large extent due to radial growth of woody species -
00552|Analysis of mango fruit surface temperature using thermal imaging and deep learning
   > The thermal images were analyzed to find the temperature difference between the different regions of the fruit. The temperature of the bruise boundary ( T
00553|A Low-Cost Sensorized Vehicle for In-Field Crop Phenotyping
   > practical innovation in field phenotyping is to implement high-performance precision phenotyping under real-world conditions at accessible costs, making real-time data analysis techniques more user-friendly. This
00554|Temporal convolutional neural network for land use and land cover classification using satellite images time series
   > [no abstract]
00555|Comprehensive mixed-based data augmentation for detection of rice leaf disease in the wild
   > [no abstract]
00556|Behavioral tests assessing neuropsychiatric phenotypes in adolescent mice reveal strain- and sex-specific effects
   > [no term] In humans, infancy and adolescence are associated with major changes in synaptic functions and ongoing maturation of neural networks, which underlie the major behavioral changes during these periods. Among adult
00557|Machine Learning Strategies for the Retrieval of Leaf-Chlorophyll Dynamics: Model Choice, Sequential Versus Retraining Learning, and Hyperspectral Pre
   > [no term] Monitoring leaf Chlorophyll (Chl) in-situ is labor-intensive, limiting representative sampling for detailed mapping of Chl variability at field scales across time. Unmanned aeria-l vehicles (UAV) and hyperspectral cameras provide flexible
00558|Unsupervised domain adaptation using transformers for sugarcane rows and gaps detection
   > [no abstract]
00559|Multilevel Prototype Alignment for Cross-Domain Few-Shot Hyperspectral Image Classification
   > Utilizing a large amount of labeled HSI data for auxiliary training of cross-domain few-shot learning (FSL) methods is an effective means to address this issue. … and spatial features vary across different scenarios, posing significant challenges to the generalizability and accuracy of cross-domain learning models. To tackle this problem, this article proposes a multilevel prototype alignment (MLP
00560|A protocol for annotation of total body photography for machine learning to analyze skin phenotype and lesion classification
   > However, clinical application is limited when algorithms are presented with 'untrained' or out-of-distribution lesion categories, often misclassifying benign lesions as malignant, or misclassifying malignant lesions as benign. Another limitation often raised is the lack of clinical context (e.g., medical history)
00561|Impact of climate change on wheat production in China
   > > 0.05) increase. Conversely, 4 stations exhibited a significant (P < 0.05) decrease, and 34 showed an insignificant (P > 0.05) decrease in wheat production. Climate, soil, and field management all played significant roles … is expected to increase in the future, while its production stability could decrease. These findings hold the potential to guide policymakers in different regions towards ensu
00562|ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS (ANN) FOR HEIGHT ESTIMATION IN A MIXED-SPECIES PLANTATION OF Eucalyptus globulus LABILL AND Acacia mearnsii DE WILD
   > [no term] ABSTRACT The objective of this study is to evaluate the fit of Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) for height estimation and evaluation of the effects of consortium in a mixed-species plantation
00563|Clinical, Conventional CT and Radiomic Feature-Based Machine Learning Models for Predicting ALK Rearrangement Status in Lung Adenocarcinoma Patients
   > [no term] Objectives: To predict the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) mutations in lung adenocarcinoma patients non-invasively with machine learning models that combine clinical, conventional CT and radiomic features. Methods: This retrospective study
00564|A soybean mapping framework via multi-index-derived pseudo-label enhancement and contrastive embedding neural network
   > [no abstract]
00565|DEVELOPMENT OF AN AUTOMATED DEBRIS DETECTION SYSTEM FOR WILD BLUEBERRY HARVESTERS USING A CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORK TO IMPROVE FRUIT QUALITY
   > best performing models (Model-1: YOLOv3-SPP, mAP: 74.38%; Model-2: YOLOv3-SPP, mAP: 73.03%) were tested on four different types of CPU, GPU, and embedded based computers. A
00566|Crop Yield Pred iction using Regression Model
   > feature of machine learning will enable the knowledge and patterns which are unseen about any problem. The future events can also be predicted. In the … farmer is focused on conceptualizing how much yield they except. Like many other regions, the amount of agricultural data is increasing at the daily source.
00567|Hybrid deep learning approach for early detection and classification of plant diseases from aerial view of agricultural lands
   > [no abstract]
00568|A Survey on Deep Learning Based IoT Approach for Precision Crop Suggestion
   > agricultural practices, the variation in climatic phenomena affects the weather conditions in different regions and based on that the soil characteristics may also vary. This
00569|Advancements in Automated Plant Disease Detection: a Comprehensive Review of Imaging Technologies and Deep Learning Applications
   > [no abstract]
00570|Inter-Continental Transfer of Pre-Trained Deep Learning Rice Mapping Model and Its Generalization Ability
   > areas with a lack of samples. The results showed that an inter-continental transferred rice mapping model was feasible to achieve accurate rice maps in Northeast … were 0.8502, 0.8439, 0.8345, and 0.8669, respectively). The study found that the transferred model exhibited a strong spatiotemporal generalization capability, achieving high accuracy in rice mapping in the three main rice-producing reg
00571|Transferability of Covariates to Predict Soil Organic Carbon in Cropland Soils
   > general statements to be made that would enable the models to be transferred to different regions. In this study, we test the transferability of SOC models for cropland soils using five different covariate groups: multispectral … elevation model derivatives (terrain), climate parameters (climate), and combined models (combined). The transferability was analyzed using data from two federal states i
00572|Geographical Origin Identification of Chinese Tomatoes Using Long-Wave Fourier-Transform Near-Infrared Spectroscopy Combined with Deep Learning Method
   > [no abstract]
00573|Intrusion detection in internet of things-based smart farming using hybrid deep learning framework
   > proposed IDS is implemented in each Fog node. The gathered information is transferred to this fog layer for further analysis of data. The third tier
00574|A Scalable Machine Learning Pipeline for Paddy Rice Classification Using Multi-Temporal Sentinel Data
   > used to train a Random Forest (RF) classifier that is fine-tuned to generalize in two other sites (Haenam and Cheorwon). The optimized model was then … July), which is key for timely decision-making. Finally, the performance of the generalized paddy rice classification model, when applied in the sites of Haenam and
00575|Modeling Abiotic Niches of Crops and Wild Ancestors Using Deep Learning: A Generalized Approach
   > environmental variables. Methods Here, we contribute to this field by presenting a generalized approach for SDM that utilizes deep learning, which offers some improvements over
00576|Parameterization and Calibration of Wild Blueberry Machine Learning Models to Predict Fruit-Set in the Northeast China Bog Blueberry Agroecosystem
   > We describe the process of building metamodels (machine learning models built and trained on simulation data) from simulations built for one agroecosystem (US wild blueberry) as the source domain, where the data resource is abundant. Metamodels are evaluated and the … system dynamics is selected. The best metamodel is re-parameterized and calibrated to another agroecosystem (Northeast China bog bl
00577|Remote Sensing Image Classification Based on Multi-Spectral Cross-Sensor Super-Resolution Combined With Texture Features: A Case Study in the Liaohe P
   > spectral distortion in the process of multi-spectral image SRR and the weak generalization of optical remote sensing image ground object classification due to the difference
00578|Crash narrative classification: Identifying agricultural crashes using machine learning with curated keywords
   > narrative and to transfer the application of models to different settings (e.g., future years of data, other states). Methods Different data representations (e.g., bag-of-words [BoW], … data were better predictive models than the baseline rule-based algorithm on the future year test data, with F1 scores of 0.88, 0.89, 0.85 vs. 0.84.
00579|Genomic prediction of morphometric and colorimetric traits in Solanaceous fruits
   > breeding. Genomic prediction allows to determine the genomic estimated breeding values of unseen lines for trait of interest using genetic markers, e.g. single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), … one accession per wild species in the training set can increase the transferability of models to unseen populations for some traits (e.g. fruit shape for which predictability in unseen scenario increased f
00580|Retrieving plant functional traits through time series analysis of satellite observations using machine learning methods
   > machine learning models trained to estimate selected plant functional traits at two different sites: mixed floodplain forest at Lanžhot and beech forest at Štítná, both
00581|A hybrid CNN-LSTM model for diagnosing rice nutrient levels at the rice panicle initiation stage
   > of 83.81% on the dataset of Huanghuazhan (HHZ, an indica cultivar). When tested on the datasets of HHZ and Xiushui 134 (XS134, a japonica rice … block achieved the highest accuracies of 85.38% and 88.38%, respectively. Through the cross-dataset method, the average accuracies on the HHZ and XS134 datasets tested in 2022 were 81.25% and 82.50%, respectively, showing a good generalization. Our propos
00582|Mapping tobacco planting areas in smallholder farmlands using Phenological-Spatial-Temporal LSTM from time-series Sentinel-1 SAR images
   > upon fuzzy sets) at the decision level. It also demonstrated a better spatial transferability than other methods when applied to different study areas, achieving an
00583|Predmoter—cross-species prediction of plant promoter and enhancer regions
   > [no term] Motivation The identification of cis-regulatory elements (CREs) is crucial for the analysis of gene regulatory networks in plants. Several next generation sequencing (NGS)-based methods were developed to identify CREs. However,
00584|A comprehensive review of deep learning approaches for rice disease detection: Datasets, methodologies, and future directions
   > • Performance of a deep learning model after implementing transfer learning enhances generalizability across various rice disease conditions. • Combining advanced architectures like CNNs with … and what are their advantages and limitations? What challenges exist in dataset generalization and model deployment for real-world applications? In answering these questions, this paper
00585|EVALUATION OF SOIL SUITABILITY FOR CULTIVATION BASED ON BACK-PROPAGATION ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORK: THE CASE OF JIANGXIA DISTRICT
   > training result is 0.99. The simulative results indicate that the learning and generalization ability of the model performed well and can adapt to different regions and requirements of samples. Hence, the model developed through the fully
00586|SpineNet-6mA: A Novel Deep Learning Tool for Predicting DNA N6-Methyladenine Sites in Genomes
   > an MCCs of 0.88 and 0.89 on two different datasets. The model generalizes well to other genomes as well, validated through cross-species testing. The results validate that the proposed model produces better scores than
00587|Xoo-YOLO: a detection method for wild rice bacterial blight in the field from the perspective of unmanned aerial vehicles
   > [no term] Wild rice, a natural gene pool for rice germplasm innovation and variety improvement, holds immense value in rice breeding due to its disease-resistance genes. Traditional disease resistance identification in wild
00588|Bridging the Lab-to-Field gap in plant disease diagnosis through unsupervised domain adaptation enhanced by background recomposition
   > approach first applies field-adaptive background recomposition for image augmentation, followed by unsupervised domain adaptation, enabling effective disease diagnosis in real agricultural environments. We quantitatively and … to reduce the domain gap in plant disease classification. • Various unsupervised domain adaptation approaches were employed to further align feature distributions between la
00589|Regional estimation of garlic yield using crop, satellite and climate data in Mexico
   > [no abstract]
00590|EasyDAM_V2: Efficient Data Labeling Method for Multishape, Cross-Species Fruit Detection
   > networks (GANs) and pseudolabeling methods to transfer labels from one specie to another to save labeling costs. However, only the color and texture features of … an EasyDAM_V2 model as an improved data labeling method for multishape and cross-species fruit detection. First, an image translation network named the Across-CycleGAN is proposed to generate fruit images from the source domain (fruit im
00591|Federated learning based reference evapotranspiration estimation for distributed crop fields
   > federated learning trains models locally and combines the knowledge, resulting in more generalized ETo estimates across different regions. The three geographical locations of Pakistan, each with diverse weather conditions,
00592|An effective pest detection method with automatic data augmentation strategy in the agricultural field
   > [no abstract]
00593|Rice leaf disease detection based on bidirectional feature attention pyramid network with YOLO v5 model
   > to diagnose rice leaf disease in its early stage in order to decrease the usage of pesticides in agriculture which in turn avoids environmental damage. … the backbone network and depth-aware instance segmentation is used to segment the different regions of rice leaf. Moreover, the proposed Bidirectional Feature Attention Pyramid Network
00594|Urban Growth Modeling Using Neural Network Simulation: A Case Study of Dongguan City, China
   > 2004, 2009, and 2014. The results showed that water and forest area decreased since the past years. In contrast, the urban land increased from 2004 to 2014, and this increasing trend will continue to the future years through the urbanization process. Having understood the spatiotemporal trends of urban
00595|Crop classification based on the spectrotemporal signature derived from vegetation indices and accumulated temperature
   > accumulated temperature (AT) and Vegetation Index (VI), which can be applied in different years without ground samples. We built AT and VI time series from
00596|Predicting carbon and water vapor fluxes using machine learning and novel feature ranking algorithms
   > zones in the US. Additionally, we tested the impacts of different training-testing data partitioning settings, including a 10-fold time-series sequential (10FTS), a 10-fold cross validation
00597|AI-driven crop disease prediction using satellite imagery and deep learning models
   > atmospheric interference in satellite data, limited labelled datasets, and the need for cross-domain collaboration remain significant. This study presents a system framework and outlines the
00598|High-resolution global map of smallholder and industrial closed-canopy oil palm plantations
   > [no term] Abstract. Oil seed crops, especially oil palm, are among the most rapidly expanding agricultural land uses, and their expansion is known to cause significant environmental damage. Accordingly, these crops often
00599|Dynamics and genetic regulation of leaf nutrient concentration in barley based on hyperspectral imaging and machine learning
   > [no term] Biofortification, the enrichment of nutrients in crop plants, is of increasing importance to improve human health. The wild barley nested association mapping (NAM) population HEB-25 was developed to improve agronomic
00600|Automated retrieval of information on threatened species from online sources using machine learning
   > [no term] Abstract As resources for conservation are limited, gathering and analysing information from digital platforms can help investigate the global biodiversity crisis in a cost‐efficient manner. Development and application of methods
00601|Efficiently deep learning for monitoring Ipomoea cairica (L.) sweets in the wild
   > important to accurately and rapidly identifying and monitoring Ipomoea cairica (L.) sweets in the wild for managements taking the necessary strategies to control the Ipomoea cairica (L.) sweets to rapidly grow in the wild. However, current approaches mainly depend on manual identification, which result … method is more suitable for the identification of Ipomoea cairica (L.) sweets in the wild than
00602|Microbial diversity and flavor of Chinese rice wine (Huangjiu): an overview of current research and future prospects
   > [no abstract]
00603|Spatiotemporal clustering and Random Forest models to identify risk factors of African swine fever outbreak in Romania in 2018–2019
   > [no term] African swine fever (ASF) has affected Romania since July 2017, with considerable economic and social consequences, despite the implementation of control measures mainly based on stamping out of infected pig
00604|Advancing plant disease classification using an attention-based CNN for intra-dataset and cross- dataset training
   > there has been significant progress in this field using deep learning approaches, cross-dataset training hasn't drawn as much attention from researchers as intra-dataset training has. Moreover, very few models have successfully blended intra-dataset and cross-dataset training approaches. This paper proposes a novel attention-based Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) … and classification accuracy ac
00605|MaizeFormerX: a lightweight vision transformer with cross-scale attention for explainable maize leaf disease diagnosis
   > and interpretability. This study presents MaizeFormerX, a lightweight Vision Transformer designed for cross-domain, explainable maize disease detection on resource-limited settings. MaizeFormerX employs multi-scale patch embeddings … Tanzania, and 96.9% on Plagues Maiz, outperforming Swin Transformer V2 by 2–3%. Cross-domain testing yielded 88.9% accuracy when trained on Dataverse and tested on Ta
00606|Semantic segmentation for plastic-covered greenhouses and plastic-mulched farmlands from VHR imagery
   > based on very high-resolution satellite images and to improve the model’s spatial generalization capability using a transfer learning strategy. Specifically, the proposed semantic segmentation model … Meanwhile, a transfer learning framework is adopted to increase mapping performance and generalization ability under limited samples. Experimental results in several typical regions across the
00607|Comparative Evaluation of Modified Wasserstein GAN-GP and State-of-the-Art GAN Models for Synthesizing Agricultural Weed Images in RGB and Infrared Do
   > normalization for training stability, and applies dropout to reduce overfitting and improve generalization.
00608|Deep Learning Meets Process-Based Models: A Hybrid Approach to Agricultural Challenges
   > PBMs and DL models, offering greater robustness to noisy data and improved generalisation across unseen locations. Finally, we discuss key challenges, including model interpretability, scalability, and data
00609|Investigation to answer three key questions concerning plant pest identification and development of a practical identification framework
   > (3) Integration of closely related species using the same control methods and cross-crop training methods for the same pests, are effective. Our two-stage plant pest … respectively, for 12,223 instances of test data of 21 classes collected from unseen fields, where 25 classes of images from 318,971 samples were used for
00610|Optimization techniques in deep convolutional neuronal networks applied to olive diseases classification
   > dataset of 5571 olive leaf images collected manually on real conditions from different regions of Morocco, that also includes healthy class to detect olive diseases. … while the highest rate in experiments without data augmentation was 92,59 %. Another subject of this study is the influence of the optimization algorithms on
00611|Continuous cropping obstacles: Insights from the community composition and the imbalance carbon fluxes within soil nematode food web
   > continuous cropping can lead to the deterioration of soil environment and the decrease of soil productivity. However, the biological mechanism on the negative effects of … altering soil biota communities. Therefore, the effects of continuous peanut cropping with different years (1, 5, 20, and 30 years) on soil properties, soil nematode
00612|DeepG2P: Fusing Multi-Modal Data to Improve Crop Production
   > natural language, our approach performs better than previous approaches when tested for new environments and similarly to other approaches for unseen seed varieties.
00613|Knowledge-guided graph machine learning improves corn yield mapping in the U.S. Midwest
   > Temporal Convolutional Neural Network (TempCNN). Results show that KGML-Graph outperformed benchmarks in cross-year testing, reducing RMSE by at least 10.8%, and improved R 2 by at least 9.3% in temporal extrapolation during 2017–2020. Furthermore, it demonstrated superior spatial transferability by maintaining accuracy in unseen regions and significantly reducing spatial autocorrelation in estima
00614|Optimizing rice in-season nitrogen topdressing by coupling experimental and modeling data with machine learning algorithms
   > [no abstract]
00615|Artificial neural networks as a tool for seasonal forecast of attack intensity of Spodoptera spp. in Bt soybean
   > [no abstract]
00616|A large-scale VHR parcel dataset and a novel hierarchical semantic boundary-guided network for agricultural parcel delineation
   > [no abstract]
00617|Machine learning classifier to identify clinical and radiological features relevant to disability progression in multiple sclerosis
   > structural brain images of 163 subjects diagnosed with MS acquired at two different sites. Participants were followed up for 2-6 years, with disability progression defined
00618|Agro-HSR: The first large-scale agricultural-focused hyperspectral dataset for deep learning-based image reconstruction and quality prediction
   > images. Agro-HSR enhances the accessibility of hyperspectral images and promotes opportunities for cross-domain research in deep learning and agricultural science, addressing critical challenges in assessing
00619|Detection of degraded forests in Guinea, West Africa, using convolutional neural networks and Sentinel-2 time series
   > Forest degradation is the alteration of forest biomass, structure or services without the conversion to another land cover. Unlike deforestation, forest degradation is subtle and less visible, but it often leads to deforestation eventually. In this study we conducted a comprehensive analysis of degraded forest detection in the Guinea forest region using remote sensing techniques. Our … explore the
00620|Winter wheat mapping without ground labels via automated knowledge transfer across regions and years
   > [no abstract]
00621|Drone phenotyping and machine learning enable discovery of loci regulating daily floral opening in lettuce
   > floral opening time for individual genotypes from the time-stamped image data. Two independent QTLs, qDFO2.1 ( Daily Floral Opening 2.1) and qDFO 8.1, were discovered.
00622|Insect Pest Image Recognition: A Few-Shot Machine Learning Approach including Maturity Stages Classification
   > be in evaluating a similar approach in particular crop ecosystems, and testing cross-domains.
00623|Cross-dataset evaluation of deep learning models for plant pest and disease diagnosis
   > their real-world effectiveness is often limited by variability between datasets, where models trained on one dataset perform poorly on others collected under different conditions. In this study, I evaluated the cross-dataset generalization of widely used deep learning architectures, including ResNet, EfficientNet, Inception, and MobileNet, across multiple tomato pest and disease datasets. As expec
00624|Area Estimation and Yield Forecasting of Wheat in Southeastern Turkey Using a Machine Learning Approach
   > [no abstract]
00625|DeepPhagy: a deep learning framework for quantitatively measuring autophagy activity in Saccharomyces cerevisiae
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Seeing is believing. The direct observation of GFP-Atg8 vacuolar delivery under confocal microscopy is one of the most useful end-point measurements for monitoring yeast macroautophagy/autophagy. However, manually labelling individual
00626|Design and Experimental Evaluation of a Smart Intra-Row Weed Control System for Open-Field Cabbage
   > rate of 0.83%. However, as the operational speed increased, the weeding accuracy decreased while the crop injury rate increased. Two-way ANOVA results indicated that operational … 1.57%. However, as the speed increased to 0.5 m/s, the weeding accuracy dropped to 81.79%, while the crop injury rate rose to 5.49%. These experimental
00627|InsectNet: Real-time identification of insects using an end-to-end machine learning pipeline
   > of insects, including beneficial and harmful insects. Automated identification of insects under real-world conditions presents several challenges, including the need to handle intraspecies dissimilarity and
00628|RoI Tanh-polar transformer network for face parsing in the wild
   > paper makes three contributions. First, we introduce iBugMask dataset for face parsing in the wild, which consists of 21,866 training images and 1000 testing images. … we show that the proposed method improves the state-of-the-art for face parsing in the wild and does not require facial landmarks for alignment.
00629|A Deep Learning Data Fusion Model Using Sentinel-1/2, SoilGrids, SMAP, and GLDAS for Soil Moisture Retrieval
   > results are benchmarked against 14 other soil moisture evaluation research works at different locations, and an ablation study was used to identify important predictors. Significance
00630|Discrimination of New and Aged Seeds Based on On-Line Near-Infrared Spectroscopy Technology Combined with Machine Learning
   > (899-1715 nm) was designed and employed for distinguishing maize seeds harvested in different years. Compared with least squares support vector machine (LS-SVM), k-nearest neighbor (KNN), … algorithm (SPA), and their combinations were used to obtain effective wavelengths and decrease spectral dimensionality. The MC-UVE-BOSS-PLS-DA model achieved the classification with an accuracy of
00631|Deep-learning analysis of micropattern-based organoids enables high-throughput drug screening of Huntington’s disease models
   > [no term] Summary Organoids are carrying the promise of modeling complex disease phenotypes and serving as a powerful basis for unbiased drug screens, potentially offering a more efficient drug-discovery route. However, unsolved
00632|QTL mapping for seed morphology using the instance segmentation neural network in Lactuca spp
   > [no term] Abstract Wild species of lettuce ( Lactuca sp.) are thought to have first been domesticated for oilseed contents to provide seed oil for human consumption. Although seed morphology is an
00633|Rapid Identification of Wild Gentiana Genus in Different Geographical Locations Based on FT-IR and an Improved Neural Network Structure Double-Net
   > [no term] Gentiana Genus, a herb mainly distributed in Asia and Europe, has been used to treat the damp heat disease of the liver for over 2000 years in China. Previous studies
00634|PlantC2U: deep learning of cross-species sequence landscapes predicts plastid C-to-U RNA editing in plants
   > [no term] Abstract In plants, C-to-U RNA editing is mainly occurred in the plastids and mitochondria transcripts, which contributes to complex transcriptional regulatory network. More evidences reveal that RNA editing plays critical
00635|Detecting abandoned citrus crops using Sentinel-2 time series. A case study in the Comunitat Valenciana region (Spain)
   > we studied the ability of the model to be spatially and temporally transferred. Limitations to recall the abandoned parcels when using models trained in other
00636|Fourier Domain Adaptation for the Identification of Grape Leaf Diseases
   > of the grape leaf disease recognition models have the problem of weak generalization ability. In order to overcome this challenge, this paper proposes an image identification method for grape leaf diseases in different domains based on Fourier domain adaptation. Firstly, Fourier domain adaptation is performed on the labeled source domain data and the unlabeled target domain data. To decrease the g
00637|Domain Adaptation and Fine-Tuning of a Deep Learning Segmentation Model of Small Agricultural Burn Area Detection Using High-Resolution Sentinel-2 Obs
   > full extent of the fires. Overall, outcomes demonstrate the model’s applicability to generalize to a new domain despite regional differences among research areas.
00638|A robust method for mapping soybean by phenological aligning of Sentinel-2 time series
   > conditions, landscapes, and agricultural systems poses challenges to accurately map soybean across different regions and years. We propose an innovative soybean mapping method combining phenological … time warping (DTW) algorithm to align the growing season between pixels across different sites. Then, based on the harmonized time-series, a set of distinctive features
00639|Efficient Deep Learning Models for Categorizing Chenopodiaceae in the Wild
   > is the first process in plant diversity protection, an automatic species classification in the wild would greatly help the species analysis and consequently biodiversity protection … and fast. Second, a model based on the EfficientNet-B1 architecture, which is pre-trained on ImageNet and is fine-tuned on ACHENY. The experimental results show that
00640|Bridging scales: integrated multi-omics and deep phenotyping for climate resilience in crop plants
   > agricultural and environmental systems will necessitate new crop research methodologies in the future years to ensure more effective use of natural resources and food security.
00641|Poverty Prediction of Nigeria by using Convolutional Neural Network with Combination of Satellite Image
   > satellite images, which are used to assess poverty rates in Abuja and other regions. It includes the properties and density of buildings, shadow areas, which
00642|Implementation of a decision support system for prediction of the total soluble solids of industrial tomato using machine learning models
   > [no abstract]
00643|Generalizability of machine learning models for plant traits using hyperspectral reflectance data: The case of maize
   > ML models, the aggregation of data from crop field trials, and the generalizability of the models in different prediction settings. We collected hyperspectral reflectance data … been investigated, (2) evaluate the ML model performance in prediction scenarios concerning unseen genotypes, unseen seasons, and the combination thereof, (3) investigate the effects of data aggregation
00644|Monitoring Complex Integrated Crop–Livestock Systems at Regional Scale in Brazil: A Big Earth Observation Data Approach
   > strategy; 2. the use of a single training database (pooling samples from different years and regions) to classify each region and year individually proved to
00645|Out-of-Distribution Detection Algorithms for Robust Insect Classification
   > humans, or a blurred image or insect class that is not yet trained on). Out-of-distribution (OOD) detection algorithms provide an exciting avenue to overcome these challenges as … axes provides practical guidelines to ensure the robust performance of well-trained models in the wild, which is a key consideration for agricultural applications. Based on
00646|Using k-mer embeddings learned from a Skip-gram based neural network for building a cross-species DNA N6-methyladenine site prediction model
   > [no abstract]
00647|Surveying soil-borne disease development on wild rocket salad crop by proximal sensing based on high-resolution hyperspectral features
   > specifically informative about canopy decay caused by all basal pathogenic attacks. Their transferability was also tested on the canopy dataset, which was useful for assessing the health status
00648|Using Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) to Improve Agricultural Knowledge Management System (KMS)
   > irrigation techniques for agriculture, as well as relevant crop-/region-specific agricultural practices in different regions of the country, as the same has been observed to be
00649|Habitat suitability modeling of dominant weed in canola (Brassica napus) fields using machine learning techniques
   > [no term] Abstract Weed infestations have been identified as a major cause of yield reductions in canola (Brassica napus L.), a vital oil crop that has gained significant prominence in Iran, especially
00650|LoRA-NIR: Low-Rank Adaptation of Vision Transformers for Remote Sensing With Near-Infrared Imagery
   > images pose significant challenges for training deep neural networks. Typically, large networks pretrained on the RGB domain are utilized to fine-tune infrared images. This practice introduces a domain shift issue because of the differing visual traits between RGB and NIR … adaptation strategies for remote sensing images focus on RGB images and overlook domain shift issues in the NIR domain. There
00651|Cattle counting in the wild with geolocated aerial images in large pasture areas
   > [no term] Among the production areas with largest impact on global economy, agriculture and livestock play a prominent role. Technologies have been developed in order to automate and increase the efficiency of
00652|Soil and satellite remote sensing variables importance using machine learning to predict cotton yield
   > fields on a Newellton, LA, USA farm. We evaluated the cotton in different years as 2019, 2020, and 2021. The variables evaluated were: soil parameters,
00653|Microbial communities in the diagnostic horizons of agricultural Isohumosols in northeast China reflect their soil classification
   > [no abstract]
00654|Heterogeneous domain adaptation method for tomato leaf disease classification base on CycleGAN
   > stage facilitated by deep learning technology, there are challenges associated with the generalization performance of deep learning models. These problems from the differences between in-field … to domain differences and heterogeneous features. In this paper, we propose a domain adaptation method based on CycleGAN to solve this problem, followed by a
00655|Small unopened cotton boll counting by detection with MRF-YOLO in the wild
   > [no abstract]
00656|Deep learning‐assisted prediction of protein–protein interactions in Arabidopsis thaliana
   > compared with existing state-of-the-art Arabidopsis PPI prediction methods. DeepAraPPI also provides better cross-species predictive ability in rice (Oryza sativa) than traditional machine learning methods, although the overall performance in cross-species prediction remains to be improved. DeepAraPPI is freely accessible at http://zzdlab.com/deeparappi/. In
00657|Spatial generalization ability analysis of deep learning crop classification models
   > [no term] 大数据驱动训练的深度学习模型是当今农作物分类的最新方法。当前研究仍然主要关注该模型方法的创新性，其在特定时间、特定地区的作物分类模型的泛化能力分析经常被忽略。因此，提高遥感分类模型在大尺度空间范围的有效迁移能力是遥感技术支撑地球系统科学研究和社会应用的关键。本研究通过设计实验分析了模型架构、作物物候特征、农区地块尺度、数据类型等因素对作物分类模型泛化能力的影响。结果表明：一方面当训练区和测试区地块大小发生明显变化时，MultiResUNet相对于SegNet，DeepLab V3+和U-Net具有更好的泛化性能。然而，单纯依靠MultiResUNet的泛化能力依然无法完全克服地块空间形态的变化对模型迁移的不利影响，为获得更高精度的华北玉米分布信息，需要优先使用与华北地区农业景观更相似的东北作物分布数据产品进行深度学习模型训练；另一方面，相对于TOA（Top of Atm
00658|Harnessing ensemble Machine learning models for improved salinity prediction in large river basin scales
   > [no abstract]
00659|Deciphering the sequence basis and application of transcriptional initiation regulation in plant genomes through deep learning
   > transcription remain unclear. RESULTS: We develop GenoRetriever, an interpretable deep learning model trained on base pair resolution STRIPE-seq data from multiple crop genomes, to systematically … dominant motifs relative to cultivated soybean, explaining domestication-driven changes in transcriptional regulation. Cross-species comparisons further indicate that, although many motif functions are 
00660|Winter-time cover crop identification: A remote sensing-based methodological framework for new and rapid data generation
   > biogeochemical cycles, and services. The methodology developed and tested broadly applies to other regions where cover crops have been promoted for climate-change mitigation and improving
00661|A Radiative Transfer-Driven Deep Learning Framework for Accurate Estimation of Rice Growth Parameters Using Multisource UAV Data
   > (RGB) imagery) to develop a retrieval model, validated through both within-site and cross-site strategies. Results showed that the SCVs generated exhibited strong correlations with LAI … of 0.77 and RMSE of <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$4.13~\mu $ </tex-math></inline-formula>g/cm2 for LCC. Cross-site validation confirmed the model’s robustness and transferability, with the best perf
00662|A scoping review of neurodegenerative manifestations in explainable digital phenotyping
   > [no term] Neurologists nowadays no longer view neurodegenerative diseases, like Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease, as single entities, but rather as a spectrum of multifaceted symptoms with heterogeneous progression courses and treatment responses.
00663|Comprehensive Analysis of a Parcel-Level Crop Mapping (PARCM) Framework From the Perspective of Spatial Heterogeneity and Spatiotemporal Transferabili
   > framework, named PARCM, and comprehensively analyzed its performance regarding spatial heterogeneity and spatiotemporal transferability. For PARCM, a rule-based fusion method was designed to integrate two … (low configurational heterogeneity), with OA exceeding 90%. It also achieved strong seasonal transferability (average OA = 89.60% and Kappa = 0.82) and spatial transferability (OA > 88.0% and K
00664|CytoCensus, mapping cell identity and division in tissues and organs using machine learning
   > [no term] A major challenge in cell and developmental biology is the automated identification and quantitation of cells in complex multilayered tissues. We developed CytoCensus: an easily deployed implementation of supervised machine
00665|MSRRT-DETR: A high-precision apple detection method with strong cross-domain generalization capability in complex orchard scenes
   > background or where significant varietal differences exist, traditional models often lack sufficient generalization ability, resulting in reduced detection accuracy and unstable predictions. To address this … MSRRT-DETR, which achieves a balance of high accuracy, real-time performance, and strong generalization capability. To improve detection accuracy and robustness in complex orchard environment
00666|A Multi-Scale Feature Fusion Deep Learning Network for the Extraction of Cropland Based on Landsat Data
   > 0.856, and MCC values of 0.816 and 0.847, in regional robustness and temporal transferability tests, respectively. Performance analysis across different months and band combinations demonstrates
00667|Modeling chromatin state from sequence across angiosperms using recurrent convolutional neural networks
   > shown to overlap significantly with accessible chromatin regions in some plants. The across-species models have comparable or even superior performance to a model trained within … position- and strand-specific patterns in their importance to the model. With our cross-species “a2z” model it is now feasible to predict the chromatin accessibility and
00668|Mapping and Assessing the Dynamics of Shifting Agricultural Landscapes Using Google Earth Engine Cloud Computing, a Case Study in Mozambique
   > computing for the years 2012, 2015, and 2018. The study of three different years aimed at evaluating the temporal dynamics of the landscape, typically characterized
00669|A novel soybean mapping index within the global optimal time window
   > [no abstract]
00670|Applying machine learning to forecast daily Ambrosia pollen using environmental and NEXRAD parameters
   > [no abstract]
00671|A temporally transferrable approach for quantifying crop residue cover: linking deep learning of UAV images with satellite-based spectral modelling
   > [no abstract]
00672|Crop cover identification based on different vegetation indices by using machine learning algorithms
   > are further processed using SNAP software and particular indices values for 210 different locations are calculated. The same process is used for calculating BNDVI and
00673|Prediction of winter wheat nitrogen nutrition index using high-resolution satellite and machine learning
   > proposed methodology in this paper can be extended to different crops and different regions for NNI prediction.
00674|Geo-STO3Net: A Deep Neural Network Integrating Geographical Spatiotemporal Information for Surface Ozone Estimation
   > of 0.95, outperforming popular models. The Geo-STO3Net model demonstrated robust spatial and temporal transferability, as evidenced by <inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$R^{2}$ </tex-math></inline-formula> values of 0.94 and 0.82 in external spatial and temporal validation on monthly scales, respectively. The Geo-STO3Net model’s proficiency
00675|Detection and counting of plants via deep learning using images collected by RPA
   > Experiments were also carried out with the trained model on images from different regions of the training, demonstrating effective results in detecting plants.
00676|Enhancing decision support in crop production: Analyzing conformal prediction for uncertainty quantification
   > We compare ICP performance against other methods in diverse agricultural tasks, including out-of-distribution detection and covariate shift. Our experiments highlight CP’s unique benefits, such as
00677|A hybrid TCN-LSTM-attention framework for multi-scenario short-term photovoltaic power forecasting incorporating physics-informed neural network strat
   > [no abstract]
00678|Drone-Based Marigold Flower Detection Using Convolutional Neural Networks
   > challenge is to develop models that are both accurate and feasible under real-world conditions. This study addresses this challenge by evaluating marigold flower detection using
00679|Improving Nitrogen Status Estimation in Malting Barley Based on Hyperspectral Reflectance and Artificial Neural Networks
   > would provide extended linearity and higher accuracy in estimating N status across different years, genotypes, and densities, and the accuracy of N status estimation will
00680|Spatial changes and driving variables of topsoil organic carbon stocks in Chinese croplands under different fertilization strategies
   > by taking account of the baseline SOCs status and environmental factors for different regions, to minimize soil carbon emissions while maximizing carbon sequestration in soils.
00681|Machine Learning and Feature Selection Methods for EGFR Mutation Status Prediction in Lung Cancer
   > mutation status in lung cancer, and consequently may be used to significantly decrease the mortality rate of patients battling this condition. In this work, we
00682|PlantDeepMeth: A Deep Learning Model for Predicting DNA Methylation States in Plants
   > A. thaliana, further revealing key regulatory patterns captured by the model. Moreover, cross-species validation between B. rapa and A. thaliana demonstrated the generalizability of PlantDeepMeth, with the model maintaining high performance across different plant species.
00683|Deep learning supported machine vision system to precisely automate the wild blueberry harvester header
   > [no term] Abstract An operator of a wild blueberry harvester faces the fatigue of manually adjusting the height of the harvester’s head, considering spatial variations in plant height, fruit zone, and field
00684|Early prediction of maize resistance to nicosulfuron using hyperspectral imaging and deep learning: Method and mechanism
   > [no abstract]
00685|Explainable automated wild-orchid identification combining deep neural networks and Bayesian networks
   > [no term] Deep learning has been shown repeatedly to be a successful method of obtaining accurate classifiers. This also applies to orchid identification from digital photographs. However, deep neural networks possess the
00686|Corn yield estimation under extreme climate stress with knowledge-encoded deep learning
   > [no abstract]
00687|Anticancer Drug Affects Metabolomic Profiles in Multicellular Spheroids: Studies Using Mass Spectrometry Imaging Combined with Machine Learning
   > anticancer drug significantly affected the abundances of a variety of metabolites in different regions of spheroids. This integrated experiment and data analysis approach can facilitate
00688|Predictive modelling benchmark of nitrate Vulnerable Zones at a regional scale based on Machine learning and remote sensing
   > as environmental predictors, with an aim to make this methodology exportable to other regions. Phenological features obtained through remote-sensing techniques were included to measure the
00689|Fisheye transformation enhances deep-learning-based single-cell phenotyping by including cellular microenvironment
   > [no term] Summary Incorporating information about the surroundings can have a significant impact on successfully determining the class of an object. This is of particular interest when determining the phenotypes of cells,
00690|Meteorological drought assessment in northern Bangladesh: A machine learning-based approach considering remote sensing indices
   > Index (SPI) as the dependent variable and seven remote sensing indices as independent variables. Through this methodology, the study assessed the significance of these indices … precision and recall. Cross-validation values ranged from 78% to 94%, affirming reliable generalization to new data. Incorporating the main findings, this study contributes valuable insights
00691|Understanding the spread of agriculture in the Western Mediterranean (6th-3rd millennia BC) with Machine Learning tools
   > East. They established settlements in coastal areas and over time migrated to new environments, adapting to changing ecological and climatic conditions. While farming practices and
00692|Multi-Year Crop Type Mapping Using Sentinel-2 Imagery and Deep Semantic Segmentation Algorithm in the Hetao Irrigation District in China
   > accuracy, indicating that the mapping method has certain universality for mapping in different years.
00693|The Invisible Frontline: High‐Tech Root Imaging for Crop Stress Adaptation
   > [no term] Roots are crucial for enhancing crop resilience to abiotic stresses, including drought, salinity, cold, nutrient deficiency, and metal toxicity. Root system architecture and morphological traits play a significant role in
00694|Classification of Agricultural Pests Through Digital Images Using Deep Learning
   > insect pests is challenging due to the high variability among species across different regions and their various life stages. In this study, we evaluate several
00695|Partial Least Squares Enhances Genomic Prediction of New Environments
   > most statistical machine learning methods used for the task of predicting a new environment or season struggle to produce moderate or high prediction accuracies. For … power of the PLS methodology for the prediction of future seasons or new environments.
00696|Precision crop prediction using IoT-enabled soil sensors and machine learning
   > promotes sustainable farming practices but also shows potential for broader application in different regions and crops. Future research could expand the dataset and incorporate additional
00697|Improved domain adaptive rice disease image recognition based on a novel attention mechanism
   > [no abstract]
00698|Deep Learning Based One-Class Detection System for Fake Faces Generated by GAN Network
   > on Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) suffer from defects such as overfitting and generalization problems. This paper proposes a new generation method using a one-class classification … with four recent methods. Our experiments demonstrate that the proposed method improves cross-domain detection efficiency while maintaining source-domain accuracy. These studies show one possible direction
00699|Parameter regionalization based on machine learning optimizes the estimation of reference evapotranspiration in data deficient area
   > Machine learning could be used to describe the ET0 model parameters in different regions because of the similarity. The combination of machine learning and empirical
00700|Assisting the Planning of Harvesting Plans for Large Strawberry Fields through Image-Processing Method Based on Deep Learning
   > draw a growth chart of strawberries (reflecting the urgency of picking in different regions). The experiment showed that the improved YOLOv8 model demonstrated an average … throughout the entire growth cycle, we can calculate the harvest index for different regions. This means farmers can not only obtain overall ripeness information of strawberries in different regions but also adjust agricultural
00701|Detection and Evaluation of Environmental Stress in Winter Wheat Using Remote and Proximal Sensing Methods and Vegetation Indices—A Review
   > sensing methods, taking into account that these responses affect the signal in different regions of the electromagnetic spectrum (EM), especially visible (VIS), near infrared (NIR),
00702|An evaluation of a pre-trained transformer-based self-distillation model (DINOv2) for cross-domain plant species identification
   > specimens in herbaria coupled with field images for plant species identification through cross-domain adaptation techniques. However, the accuracy of these methods remains unsatisfactory, motivating the … evaluated the feasibility of employing a pre-trained transformer-based self-distillation model (DINOv2) for cross-domain plant species identification tasks. We trained our model with the PlantCLE
00703|Action Recognition Using a Spatial-Temporal Network for Wild Felines
   > [no term] Simple Summary Many wild felines are on the verge of extinction, and the monitoring of wildlife diversity is particularly important. Using surveillance videos of wild felines to monitor their behaviors
00704|DEVELOPMENT OF A MACHINE VISION BASED WEED (GOLDENROD) DETECTION SYSTEM FOR SPOT-APPLICATION OF HERBICIDES IN WILD BLUEBERRY CROPPING SYSTEM
   > [no term] Wild blueberry crop yields are dependent on heavy agrochemical applications to control weeds competing with crop. Goldenrod is a creeping herbaceous perennial weed that occurred in more than 90% of
00705|Deep learning empowers genomic selection of pest-resistant grapevine
   > [no term] Abstract Crop pests significantly reduce crop yield and threaten global food security. Conventional pest control relies heavily on insecticides, leading to pesticide resistance and ecological concerns. However, crops and their
00706|DNABERT-based explainable lncRNA identification in plant genome assemblies
   > lncRNA identification. Furthermore, we demonstrated the potential of using NLP models for cross-species prediction with an average of 63.1% accuracy using target species not previously
00707|The phenotypic diversity of Schisandra sphenanthera fruit and SVR model for phenotype forecasting
   > [no abstract]
00708|Evaluation of Soybean Drought Tolerance Using Multimodal Data from an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle and Machine Learning
   > were repeatedly planted under well water (WW) and drought stress (DS) in different years and locations (Jiyang and Yazhou, Sanya, China), and UAV multimodal data
00709|Limited-Samples-Based Crop Classification Using a Time-Weighted Dynamic Time Warping Method, Sentinel-1 Imagery, and Google Earth Engine
   > The accuracy comparisons indicated that the TWDTW has stronger temporal and spatial generalization capabilities and has high potential applications for early, historical, and limited-samples-based crop
00710|Leveraging Zero-Shot Detection Mechanisms to Accelerate Image Annotation for Machine Learning in Wild Blueberry (Vaccinium angustifolium Ait.)
   > using two frameworks, YOLO-World and Grounding DINO, on a selection of images in the wild blueberry (Vaccinium angustifolium Ait.) cropping system. The datasets included ripe … this study include providing a solution for accelerated object detection image annotation in the wild blueberry cropping system. This work, representing a significant advancement in
00711|Meticulous Land Cover Classification of High-Resolution Images Based on Interval Type-2 Fuzzy Neural Network with Gaussian Regression Model
   > in the difficulty of classification due to the increase in similarity in different regions are overcome. Firstly, the local spatial information between adjacent pixels was … regional noise in land cover classification, with a fast running speed, high generalization ability, and high classification accuracy.
00712|Machine learning and fluorosensing for estimation of maize nitrogen status at early growth-stages
   > and CHL1), and one flavonoid index (FLAV) were used as predictors. The independent site data were first utilized in a Support Vector Regression (SVR) model … be applied to a different dataset and validated its performance in a cross-site experimental setting. Subsequently, cross-site comparisons of nitrogen status estimates were conducted to recommend the selection of
00713|Development of an Intelligent Imaging System for Ripeness Determination of Wild Pistachios
   > [no term] Rapid, non-destructive, and smart assessment of the maturity levels of fruit facilitates their harvesting and handling operations throughout the supply chain. Recent studies have introduced machine vision systems as a
00714|Canopy height estimation from PlanetScope time series with spatio-temporal deep learning
   > leverages 23 aerial lidar surveys conducted in California between 2016 and 2021. Trained on a random selection of 2,046 scenes, the accuracy assessment on the … on dense canopies or diverse topography. Example applications demonstrate the ability to generalize to different years, maintaining consistent predictions between years and capturing changes in canopy height
00715|Machine Learning Model for Predicting Rice Crop Yield: A Case Study in Hadejia and Auyo, Nigeria
   > provides a practical roadmap for precision agriculture initiatives in Jigawa State and other regions with similar agroecological conditions by illustrating how comprehensive feature integration and
00716|Integrated meteorological drought monitoring framework using multi-sensor and multi-temporal earth observation datasets and machine learning algorithm
   > [no abstract]
00717|High-resolution UAV-based blueberry scorch virus mapping utilizing a deep vision transformer algorithm
   > learning algorithm with superior classification performance. • The new algorithm illustrates superior spatial transferability. • This research helps to control the virus and thus generates
00718|Combined multivariate analysis and machine learning reveals a predictive module of metabolic stress response in Arabidopsis thaliana
   > [no term] Abiotic stress exposure of plants induces metabolic reprogramming which is tightly regulated by signalling cascades connecting transcriptional with translational and metabolic regulation. Complexity of such interconnected metabolic networks impedes the
00719|Early-Season forecasting of citrus block-yield using time series remote sensing and machine learning: A case study in Australian orchards
   > block-yield records. Six statistical and machine learning algorithms were calibrated using a leave-one-year-out cross-validation approach (LOYO CV) and validated for one-year forward prediction over a
00720|RAFA-Net: Region Attention Network for Food Items and Agricultural Stress Recognition
   > region attention scheme for modelling long-range dependencies by building a correlation among different regions within an input image. The attention method enhances feature representation by … and PlantDoc-27 plant disease datasets are 92.36%, and 85.54%, respectively; implying RAFA-Net's generalization capability.
00721|Estimation of canopy attributes of wild cacao trees using digital cover photography and machine learning algorithms
   > [no term] Surveying canopy attributes while conducting fieldwork in the rain forest is time-consuming. Low-cost imagery such as digital cover photography is a potential source of information to speed up the process
00722|The deep learning method applied to the detection and mapping of stone deterioration in open-air sanctuaries of the Hittite period in Anatolia
   > [no abstract]
00723|Deep neural networks autonomously learn and utilize critical environmental conditions to capture the impacts of weather on spring wheat performance
   > applications of deep learning for enviromic prediction. Deep neural networks (DNN) were trained on over 100,000 environmental features to predict wheat yield and other important … could be integrated with Finlay-Wilkinson regression models to forecast variety-level performance in new environments. Our findings highlight the potential of deep learning to develop interpretable
00724|Predictive soil-crop suitability pattern extraction using machine learning algorithms
   > data transformation, and pattern extraction techniques on diverse soil samples obtained from different regions of Negros Occidental, Philippines. Specifically, the Naive Bayes, Deep Learning, Decision
00725|TasselNetV4: A vision foundation model for cross-scene, cross-scale, and cross-species plant counting
   > model and introduce a new extension, TasselNetV4, shifting from species-specific counting to cross-species counting. TasselNetV4 marries the local counting idea of TasselNet with the extract-and-match … TasselNetV4 emerges to be a vision foundation model for cross-scene, cross-scale, and cross-species plant counting.
00726|Classification of olive cultivars by machine learning based on olive oil chemical composition
   > three Italian olive cultivars were collected during two successive crop years from different locations in the coastline part of western Greece and southern Italy and
00727|ChinaCropSM1 km: a fine 1 km daily soil moisture dataset for dryland wheat and maize across China during 1993–2018
   > algorithm based on numerous in situ daily observations of soil moisture. We independently used in situ observations (181 327 samples) from the agricultural meteorological stations … of global soil moisture products (e.g., r increased by 116 %, ubRMSE decreased by 64 %), including the global remote-sensing-based surface soil moisture dataset (RSSSM)
00728|Gene regulatory network prediction using machine learning, deep learning, and hybrid approaches
   > of limited training data in non-model species, we implemented transfer learning, enabling cross-species GRN inference by applying models trained on well-characterized and data-rich species to another species with limited data. This strategy enhanced model performance and demonstrated the
00729|A novel deep transfer learning framework with adversarial domain adaptation: application to financial time-series forecasting
   > [no abstract]
00730|CLIPSelf: Vision Transformer Distills Itself for Open-Vocabulary Dense Prediction
   > (CLIP). CLIP models, particularly those incorporating vision transformers (ViTs), have exhibited remarkable generalization ability in zero-shot image classification. However, when transferring the vision-language alignment of … representation for the open-vocabulary dense prediction tasks, CLIP ViTs suffer from the domain shift from full images to local image regions. In this paper, we
00731|Infrared Spectrometry as a High-Throughput Phenotyping Technology to Predict Complex Traits in Livestock Systems
   > and frequencies known as the electromagnetic spectrum. The spectrum is divided into different regions, with near- and mid-infrared regions being the main spectral regions used
00732|Morphological variables of the butterfly guild and their functional role in foraging behavior on the visiting plants: Optimization by Artificial Neura
   > [no abstract]
00733|A Low-Power IoT Device for Measuring Water Table Levels and Soil Moisture to Ease Increased Crop Yields
   > [no term] The simultaneous measurement of soil water content and water table levels is of great agronomic and hydrological interest. Not only does soil moisture represent the water available for plant growth
00734|Exploiting 2D Neural Network Frameworks for 3D Segmentation Through Depth Map Analytics of Harvested Wild Blueberries (Vaccinium angustifolium Ait.)
   > [no term] This study introduced a novel approach to 3D image segmentation utilizing a neural network framework applied to 2D depth map imagery, with Z axis values visualized through color gradation. This
00735|A core root bacteria contribute to plant growth and anisodine accumulation of Anisodus tanguticus
   > [no term] Background Although it is well recognized that core root microorganisms contribute to plant health and productivity, little is known about their role to the accumulation of secondary metabolites. The roots
00736|Harnessing machine learning to predict habitat suitability of medicinal plants: insights from Oliveria decumbens under environmental change
   > using five machine learning algorithms—Naive Bayes, Quadratic Discriminant Analysis, Linear Discriminant Analysis, Generalized Additive Models, and eXtreme Gradient Boosting. A total of 168 occurrence points … as the most influential variables. QDA and LDA models outperformed others in spatial cross-validation, with AUC scores of 0.90 and 0.89, respectively, demonstrating high predictive
00737|Estimating maize harvest index and nitrogen concentrations in grain and residue using globally available data
   > yield, fertilizer application rates and estimates of yield potential. Experiments from 1487 different locations conducted across 31 countries were used to test various prediction models.
00738|Performance Comparison of CNN Models for Tomato Disease Detection using Image-based data in Both Controlled and Real-world Conditions
   > [no term] Tomato plants are integral to worldwide agricultural production, yet they remain vulnerable to numerous diseases stemming from fungi, bacteria, and viruses. Prompt and precise identification of these ailments is vital
00739|Assessment of the levels of damage caused by Fusarium head blight in wheat using an improved YoloV5 method
   > [no abstract]
00740|Adversarial domain adaptation for cross-domain fault diagnosis of nuclear power plant equipment
   > [no abstract]
00741|Few-shot learning approach with multi-scale feature fusion and attention for plant disease recognition
   > has become an obstacle to leverage deep learning methods. Few-shot learning can generalize to new categories with the supports of few samples, which is very … learning: (1) the feature extracted from few shots is very limited; (2) generalizing to new categories, especially to another domain is very tough. In response to the two issues, we propose
00742|Deep Learning Analysis on Images of iPSC-derived Motor Neurons Carrying fALS-genetics Reveals Disease-Relevant Phenotypes
   > significant, ALS-relevant biological information in these images. We demonstrate that ML models trained on core cell morphology alone can accurately predict TDP-43 mislocalization, a known
00743|Harnessing the Power of Sensors and Machine Learning to Design Smart Fence to Protect Farmlands
   > [no term] Agriculture and animals are two crucial factors for ecological balance. Human–wildlife conflict is increasing day-by-day due to crop damage and livestock depredation by wild animals, causing local farmer’s economic loss
00744|High‐throughput measurement of plant fitness traits with an object detection method using Faster R‐CNN
   > [no term] Summary Revealing the contributions of genes to plant phenotype is frequently challenging because loss‐of‐function effects may be subtle or masked by varying degrees of genetic redundancy. Such effects can potentially
00745|High-resolution maize yield mapping across Africa using earth observation and machine learning, deep learning, and foundation model
   > achieved the highest temporal R 2 (0.78), while TabPFN demonstrated superior spatial generalization and the lowest mean absolute percentage error (MAPE ≈ 25 %). Causal
00746|A simple and efficient approach to unsupervised instance matching and its application to linked data of power plants
   > a dynamic decentralised knowledge graph and on semantic technologies to realise complex cross-domain scenarios. Accurate computational results for such scenarios require the availability of complete, … automatically populating the knowledge graph with data from a wide spectrum of external sources. Instance matching compares two data sets and seeks to identify instances
00747|GCFC: Graph Convolutional Fusion CNN Network for Cross-Domain Zero-Shot Extraction of Winter Wheat Map
   > learning methods often demand extensive data and corresponding labels for training in cross-domain classification problems. The heterogeneity of land cover types causes an uneven distribution … samples, leading to unsatisfactory results when these methods are applied directly to other regions. The study introduces a two-branch Graph Convolutional Fusion CNN (GCFC) Network
00748|Deep learning classification of winter wheat from Sentinel optical-radar image time series in smallholder farming areas
   > [no abstract]
00749|Assessment of deep learning methods for classification of cereal crop growth stage pre and post canopy closure
   > (b) in fields on days not imagined in the training data (i.e., unseen field-days principal GS classification). Of the three methods investigated, method III achieved
00750|CODI: Enhancing machine learning-based molecular profiling through contextual out-of-distribution integration
   > sufficiently representative datasets. Here, we propose and evaluate a new method: Contextual Out-of-Distribution Integration (CODI). Based on experimental observations, CODI generates synthetic data that integrate … applications into a given molecular fingerprint dataset. By augmenting a dataset with out-of-distribution variance, CODI enables an ML model to better generalize to samples beyond the 
00751|Towards CNN-based classification of crop independent agricultural sub-classes
   > 0.50-0.56; accuracy: 0.81-0.87) and weed infestation (F1: 0.00-0.43; accuracy: 0.79-0.94). In the transferability phase, performance remained moderate for bare soil (F1: 0.54-0.70; accuracy: 0.77-0.85), disturbed … well as for weed infestation (F1: 0.00; accuracy: 0.96). The inability to generalize these finer subdivisions suggests that excessive granularity of the undisturbed crop sub-classes can
00752|An efficient data driven framework for intrusion detection in wireless sensor networks using deep learning
   > of these simultaneously, maximizing detection accuracy, minimizing adversarial vulnerability and ensuring model generalizability. Synthetic oversampling with SMOTE is employed to deal with this. Cross-dataset and intra-dataset experiments are implemented when testing the proposed framework, and it outperforms in terms of robustness and transferability. Our efforts are practical in terms of the dep
00753|UDATNN: A modeling scheme integrating unsupervised domain adversarial learning and tri-training strategy for variety recognition of maize seeds with d
   > [no abstract]
00754|Comparison of RETFound and a Supervised Convolutional Neural Network for Detection of Referable Glaucoma from Fundus Photographs
   > glaucoma (cup-to-disc ratio ≥0.6) by certified optometrists. Four deep learning models were trained on cropped and uncropped images (training N = 8996; validation N = … held-out test set (N = 1000) labeled by glaucoma specialists and an external test set (N = 300) from University of Southern California clinics. Performance
00755|How early and how general: a novel early-stage dynamic corn mapping method with spatiotemporal transferability
   > accuracies above 90% by late July, nearly two months before physiological maturity. Cross-year experiments demonstrated robustness to interannual variability and crop rotation, while cross-regional tests confirmed strong spatial generalization, maintaining F1-scores above 0.85 within 250 km and above 0.80 within 450 … of how early corn can be classified and how far models can generalize, this stud
00756|Machine learning and functional validation identify OsRAV11/12 as negative regulators of drought tolerance and early flowering in rice
   > [no term] Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is a staple food for half of the global population, with drought stress posing a significant threat to production. This study employed machine learning (ML) approaches
00757|A fault diagnosis method for nuclear power plant rotating machinery based on adaptive deep feature extraction and multiple support vector machines
   > [no abstract]
00758|Robust real-time strawberry maturity detection using UAV-mounted deep learning for precision agriculture
   > controller for the quadrotor is developed and tested in both simulated and real-world conditions. The UAV navigates through the greenhouse using predetermined waypoints, operating as
00759|Machine learning-enabled implantable plant biomarker sensor for early detection and classification of acid and salt stress
   > We confirm the robust sensing capabilities and favorable biocompatibility of MLIPBS through cross-species validation in lettuce, tomato, and Aloe vera. Additionally, leveraging the LightGBM architecture,
00760|Identification of Paddy Croplands and Its Stages Using Remote Sensors: A Systematic Review
   > the potential of backscatter information to determine textures in different stages and decrease cloud cover constraints. The preferred solutions include phenology algorithms via the use … as multisource solutions will emerge more frequently and cover larger areas in different locations and at a higher resolution. In addition, the continuous improvement of
00761|Domain adaptation with transfer learning for pasture digital twins
   > Abstract Domain adaptation is important in agriculture because agricultural systems have their own individual … different systems may not have the desired effect due to those characteristics. Domain adaptation is also an inherent aspect of digital twins. In this work, we examine the potential of transfer learning for domain adaptation in pasture digital twins. We use a synthetic dataset of grassla
00762|Proteins released into the plant apoplast by the obligate parasitic protist Albugo selectively repress phyllosphere‐associated bacteria
   > [no term] Biotic and abiotic interactions shape natural microbial communities. The mechanisms behind microbe-microbe interactions, particularly those protein based, are not well understood. We hypothesize that released proteins with antimicrobial activity are
00763|Optimizing power-to-H2 participation in the Nord Pool electricity market: Effects of different bidding strategies on plant operation
   > for the day-ahead market with a special focus on Sweden. A price independent order (PIO) strategy was developed assisted by forecasting electricity prices with an … simulate H2 production with both alkaline and proton exchange membrane electrolysers in different years and technological scenarios. Results showed that using PIO to control H2
00764|Early-season delineation of agricultural fields using a fully convolutional multi-task network and satellite images
   > two years of data, along with spatio-temporal experiments to evaluate the model's transferability to unseen regions and new acquisition year. The results demonstrate that the ResUNet-a d7
00765|Focal-TSMP: deep learning for vegetation health prediction and agricultural drought assessment from a regional climate simulation
   > and regions, we provide an analysis of model biases and uncertainties across different regions over the pan-European domain. We further provide an analysis about the
00766|D4: Text-guided diffusion model-based domain adaptive data augmentation for vineyard shoot detection
   > conditions, and crops have been developed, they cannot be widely applied in real-world conditions. Therefore, in this study, we propose a generative artificial intelligence data … proposed method generates new annotated images with background information adapted to the target domain while retaining annotation information necessary for object detection. In addition, D4
00767|Soil organic carbon estimation using remote sensing data-driven machine learning
   > SOC content in Shandong Province was 8.78 g/kg, exhibiting significant variation across different regions. Comparing the model error and correlation coefficient, the XGBoost model showed
00768|Field-Level Classification of Winter Catch Crops Using Sentinel-2 Time Series: Model Comparison and Transferability
   > reliable early-season predictions in a separate target year, testing early-season performance and temporal transferability. The following three models were compared: Random Forest (RF), Time Series
00769|Analyzing wheat productivity: using GGE biplot and machine learning to understand agronomic traits and yield
   > [no abstract]
00770|A method for phenotyping lettuce volume and structure from 3D images
   > fresh weight. However, these models are typically specific to particular datasets, lack domain adaptation, and are often limited by the availability of open-access datasets. In
00771|Smart breeding driven by big data, artificial intelligence, and integrated genomic-enviromic prediction
   > models, environmental indices, factorial and spatiotemporal structure of plant breeding data, and cross-species prediction. A strategy is then proposed for prediction-based crop redesign at both
00772|Hybrid Artificial Neural Network-Particle Swarm Optimization for Prediction of DNBP Polymerization Retarder Usage in Industrial Styrene Monomer Plant
   > is proposed in this study. Moreover, all useful parameters (9 parameters) in different years have been gathered from the industrial DCS system for training ANN.
00773|Development of an Intelligent Agricultural Decision Support System for Crop Recommendation Using Machine Learning Techniques
   > advanced deep learning techniques to further increase prediction reliability and applicability across different regions.
00774|Inferring Historical Introgression with Deep Learning
   > [no term] Resolving phylogenetic relationships among taxa remains a challenge in the era of big data due to the presence of genetic admixture in a wide range of organisms. Rapidly developing sequencing
00775|Decoding the cis-regulation of tomato fruit development with deep learning
   > [no term] The transcriptional regulation underlying biological processes is mostly controlled by transcription factors (TFs) and co-factors (trans-factors) that bind specific sequences in the promoter regions (cis-elements) to activate or repress gene
00776|FOTCA: hybrid transformer-CNN architecture using AFNO for accurate plant leaf disease image recognition
   > the idea of migration learning to make the model have good scientific generalization on OOD (Out-of-Distribution) samples to improve the model's overall understanding of images. In further experiments,
00777|Unsupervised semantic label generation in agricultural fields
   > labels to train deep learning models boosts our prediction performance on previously unseen fields with respect to unseen crop species, growth stages, or different lighting conditions. We obtain an IoU … models trained in a fully supervised fashion to improve their performance in unseen field conditions up to +17.6% in mean IoU without additional manual labeling.
00778|De-black-boxing health AI: demonstrating reproducible machine learning computable phenotypes using the N3C-RECOVER Long COVID model in the All of Us d
   > study in ML-based phenotype reuse illustrates how open-source software best practices and cross-site collaboration can de-black-box phenotyping algorithms, prevent unnecessary rework, and promote open science
00779|Evaluation of Leaf N Concentration in Winter Wheat Based on Discrete Wavelet Transform Analysis
   > data and ground-based hyperspectral canopy reflectance was measured over three years at different sites during the tillering, jointing, booting and filling stages of winter wheat.
00780|Neural Network-Based Prediction Model for Evaporation Using Weather Data
   > [no abstract]
00781|Determining Effective Temporal Windows for Rapeseed Detection Using Sentinel-1 Time Series and Machine Learning Algorithms
   > scenarios relating to the availability or constraints of providing ground samples for different years: (i) involving the same year for both training and the test, … the availability of ground samples for each year; and (ii) evaluating the temporal transferability of the classifier, considering the constraints of ground sampling. We employed
00782|Cross-Domain Few-Shot Anomaly Detection for equipment in nuclear power plants
   > [no abstract]
00783|Cadastral-to-Agricultural: A Study on the Feasibility of Using Cadastral Parcels for Agricultural Land Parcel Delineation
   > to the dynamic nature of agricultural practices. Additionally, the significant variations across different regions and the seasonality of agriculture pose challenges to the automatic generation
00784|Genotype‐phenotype analysis of LMNA ‐related diseases predicts phenotype‐selective alterations in lamin phosphorylation
   > alterations in lamin phosphorylation, and that some changes in phosphorylation may occur independently of predicted changes in lamin protein structure. Therefore, therapeutic targeting of phosphorylation
00785|Parameter Selection for a Neural Network Model for Forecasting Plant Pest Population Growth
   > analysis demonstrated the model’s high robustness to spatiotemporal variability, with minimal accuracy degradation when transferred across regions and seasons. The results demonstrate the high practical value of
00786|Differentiation of Geographical Origin of White and Brown Rice Samples Using NMR Spectroscopy Coupled with Machine Learning Techniques
   > discussion. In our study, we collected 44 and 20 rice samples from different regions of the Republic of Korea and China, respectively, of which 35 … spectroscopy, followed by analyses with various data normalization and scaling methods. Then, leave-one-out cross-validation (LOOCV) and external validation were employed to evaluate various machine learning algorithms. Total area normalization,
00787|Machine learning-based prediction of nitrous oxide emissions from arable farming: Exploring management practices as predictor variables
   > predicting N 2 O fluxes at different scales. Due to its potential generalizability, the large-scale application, e.g. for national greenhouse gas reporting, is envisioned. This requires further training with data from multiple locations with different site factors and land uses.
00788|Deep learning approach for early detection of sub-surface bruises in fruits using single snapshot spatial frequency domain imaging
   > [no abstract]
00789|Improved prediction of rice yield at field and county levels by synergistic use of SAR, optical and meteorological data
   > [no abstract]
00790|Multimodal graph neural networks for earth observation and sustainable resource management: a comprehensive review and research roadmap
   > evaluation metrics are systematically compared, with critical issues such as label scarcity, domain shift, scalability, and real-time deployment examined in depth. Special emphasis is placed
00791|Counting sea lions and elephants from aerial photography using deep learning with density maps
   > 60% are livestock, 36% humans, and only 4% are animals that live in the wild. In a relatively short period, development of human civilization caused … deep learning models, a basic UNet without any feature extractor (Model-1) and another with the EfficientNet-B5 feature extractor (Model-2). We measured the model’s prediction accuracy,
00792|Resilient In-Season Crop Type Classification in Multispectral Satellite Observations using Growth Stage Normalization
   > events become more frequent, these methods must be resilient to changes in domain shifts that may occur, for example, due to shifts in planting timelines. … type classification using moderate spatial resolution (30 m) satellite data that addresses domain shift related to planting timelines by normalizing inputs by crop growth stage.
00793|Prediction of Reverse Osmosis Membrane Fouling Using Machine Learning: MLR, ANN, and SVM at a Seawater Desalination Plant
   > study focuses on state-to-TMP prediction rather than chronological forecasting, with no temporal generalization claimed. Approximately 2000 augmented training samples generated using a conservative SMOGN approach were used for model development, while performance evaluation relied exclusively on 39 independent real test observations. Two modeling strategies were adopted: (i) a minimalist approach 
00794|EstimATTR: A Simplified, Machine-Learning-Based Tool to Predict the Risk of Wild-Type Transthyretin Amyloid Cardiomyopathy
   > [no term] BACKGROUND: Wild-type transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy (ATTRwt-CM), an increasingly recognized cause of heart failure (HF), often remains undiagnosed until later stages of the disease. METHODS AND RESULTS: A previously developed machine
00795|Exploring the utility of regulatory network-based machine learning for gene expression prediction in maize
   > simple models, such as partial least squares, to capture expression variations. In cross-species predictions, the best model is often a more complex strategy utilizing regulatory
00796|A deep learning pipeline for time-lapse camera monitoring of insects and their floral environments
   > paper presents a comprehensive methodology to monitor abundance and diversity of arthropods in the wild and to quantify floral cover as a key resource. We … and erroneous background detections. This filtering approach has been demonstrated to significantly decrease the incidence of false positives, since arthropods, occur in less than 3%
00797|Multi-trait genome prediction of new environments with partial least squares
   > power of the MT-PLS methodology for the prediction of future seasons or new environments. Furthermore, the comparison between single univariate-trait (UT) versus MT for GBLUP
00798|RiceSNP-BST: a deep learning framework for predicting biotic stress–associated SNPs in rice
   > offering more precision than state-of-the-art methods while demonstrating good performance on an independent test set and cross-species datasets. Additionally, we extracted features from the original DNA sequences and employed
00799|Integration of bare soil and crop growth remote sensing data to improve the accuracy of soil organic matter mapping in black soil areas
   > [no abstract]
00800|Comparing stability in random forest models to map Northern Great Plains plant communities in pastures occupied by prairie dogs using Pleiades imagery
   > of north central South Dakota, assess the stability of RF models among different years, and determine the utility of utilizing remote sensing techniques to identify
00801|Combination Ensemble and Explainable Deep Learning Framework for High-Accuracy Classification of Wild Edible Macrofungi
   > [no term] Accurate identification of wild edible macrofungi is essential for biodiversity conservation, food safety, and ecological sustainability, yet remains challenging due to the morphological similarity between edible and toxic species. In
00802|Extracting the central crop row with CCRDNet for universal in-row navigation in agriculture
   > proposed approach not only simplifies the navigation pipeline but also enables zero-shot generalization across previously unseen environments, fully satisfying the real-time requirements of agricultural machinery.
00803|Battery size determination for photovoltaic capacity firming using deep learning irradiance forecasts
   > Results obtained for a whole year analysis using actual data at three different locations with varying irradiance patterns prove that 1-hour capacity batteries grant PV
00804|Adapting Self-Supervised Vision Transformers by Probing Attention-Conditioned Masking Consistency
   > Visual domain adaptation (DA) seeks to transfer trained models to unseen, unlabeled domains across distribution shift, but approaches typically focus on adapting convolutional neural network architectures initialized
00805|A Unified Self-Supervised Framework for Plant Disease Detection on Laboratory and In-Field Images
   > learning (SSL) framework that leverages unlabeled plant imagery to learn meaningful and transferable visual representations. Our method integrates three complementary objectives—Bootstrap Your Own Latent (BYOL), … instance-level distinction. GPU-based data augmentations are used to introduce stochasticity and enhance generalization during pretraining. Experimental results on the challenging PlantD
00806|Deep learning and UAV-Based image recognition for identification of medicinal plants in Gentiana Sect. Cruciata
   > [no abstract]
00807|Deep Transfer Learning for UAV-Based Cross-Crop Yield Prediction in Root Crops
   > yield prediction in underrepresented crops. To address this challenge, we developed a cross-crop deep transfer learning (TL) framework that leverages potato (Solanum tuberosum L.) as the source domain to predict sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas L.) yield using multi-temporal uncrewed … parameter-based transfer strategy to ensure temporal alignment and feature-space consistency across crops. Cross-cro
00808|Multi-trait analysis of domestication genes in Cicer arietinum – Cicer reticulatum hybrids with a multidimensional approach: Modeling wide crosses for
   > [no term] Domestication and subsequent breeding have eroded genetic diversity in the modern chickpea crop by ˜100-fold. Corresponding reductions to trait variation create the need, and an opportunity, to identify and harness
00809|Multi-Parameter Prediction of Solar Greenhouse Environment Based on Multi-Source Data Fusion and Deep Learning
   > are complex couplings and nonlinear relationships among greenhouse environmental parameters. This study independently developed a greenhouse environmental acquisition system to achieve a comprehensive method for … in carbon dioxide concentration, air temperature and humidity, and soil temperature at different location nodes. To validate the performance of this model, we employed multiple
00810|Forecasting Short-term Water Demands with an Ensemble Deep Learning Model for a Water Supply System
   > accuracy and can be further applied in daily water demand forecast in other regions.
00811|Synergistic strategy for the geographical traceability of wild Boletus tomentipes by means of data fusion analysis
   > [no term] Abstract Due to the worldwide importance and public interest concerning to the food quality and safety, there is a growing trend in the geographical trace of food products with various
00812|Prior knowledge auxiliary for few-shot pest detection in the wild
   > in natural scenarios. Firstly, a prior-knowledge auxiliary architecture for few-shot pest detection in the wild is presented. Secondly, a hierarchical few-shot pest detection data set has been built in the wild in China over the past few years. Thirdly, a pest
00813|Domain-Specific Self-Supervised Pretraining for Low-Resource Multi-Crop Plant Disease Recognition
   > of a domain-specific self-supervised learning (SSL) pretraining approach. The model was first trained on 54,303 unlabeled plant images to learn basic botanical representations, followed by … of 0.9143 in joint tomato and potato classification. The model demonstrates strong cross-crop generalization, correctly identifying Early Blight and Late Blight with accuracies of 0.9600 and
00814|Research on the Wild Mushroom Recognition Method Based on Transformer and the Multi-Scale Feature Fusion Compact Bilinear Neural Network
   > non-experts often struggle to distinguish between toxic and non-toxic species when foraging in the wild, potentially leading to poisoning incidents. To address this issue, this
00815|Monitoring of key Camellia Oleifera phenology features using field cameras and deep learning
   > used YOLO v3 model, and CenterNet model with center point prediction, all trained on the same dataset. The best model for phenology feature detection was … optimization. Additionally, data from the Seedling Center of Liuyang City collected at different years and times were utilized to showcase the generalizability and scalability of the selected models, resulting in mAP values of 86.14
00816|Fault diagnosis of photovoltaic arrays with different degradation levels based on cross-domain adaptive generative adversarial network
   > [no abstract]
00817|Surface water quality prediction in the lower Thoubal river watershed, India: A hyper-tuned machine learning approach and DNN-based sensitivity analys
   > [no abstract]
00818|Cross-Domain Transfer Learning: Enhancing Deep Neural Networks for Low-Resource Environments
   > heavily on large-scale, high-quality labeled datasets, which are scarce in low-resource environments. Cross-domain transfer learning has emerged as a promising technique for adapting pre-trained models from data-rich source domains to low-resource target domains to address this limitation. This study explores innovative strategies to enhance the performance and applicability of DNNs through cross-
00819|Bridging lab and field: A review and roadmap for unmanned aerial vehicle-based field crop counting with deep learning
   > [no term] • Comprehensive review of UAV-based deep learning for large-scale field crop counting. • Framework links agronomic targets to detection, segmentation, or regression. • Key bottlenecks: semantic gaps, temporal decay, and
00820|A Spatio-Temporal Convolutional Neural Network Model for Rice Nutrient Level Diagnosis at Rice Panicle Initiation Stage
   > [no abstract]
00821|Detection of Crop Damage in Maize Using Red–Green–Blue Imagery and LiDAR Data Acquired Using an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
   > [no term] Crop damage caused by wild animals, particularly wild boars (Sus scrofa), significantly impacts agricultural yields, especially in maize fields. This study evaluates two methods for assessing maize crop damage using
00822|AgriPINN: A process-informed neural network for interpretable and scalable crop biomass prediction under water stress
   > supporting climate-resilient agriculture. Data-driven models scale well but often lack interpretability and degrade under distribution shift, whereas process-based crop models (e.g. DSSAT, APSIM, LINTUL5) require extensive calibration
00823|Unseen-Crop Plant Disease Classification via Disentangled Representation Learning
   > for early diagnosis and precision management. However, models often lack robustness and generalization when confronted with novel crops absent from the training set, leading to a marked performance drop in cross-unseen-crop scenarios. Cross-crop generalization for plant disease recognition requires models to identify known disease categories in … that disease symptoms are strongly coupled with cro
00824|The Influence of Weather on the Occurrence of Aflatoxin B1 in Harvested Maize from Kenya and Tanzania
   > spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) method. Aflatoxin B1 incidence ranged between 0–100% of samples in different regions with an average value of 29.4% and aflatoxin concentrations of up
00825|Understanding Behavior of Clinical Models under Domain Shifts
   > the training datasets. This can be limiting when models are deployed in new environments, when there are systematic domain shifts not known a priori. In this paper, we propose to emulate a large class of domain shifts, that can occur in clinical settings, with a given dataset, and … sheds light into data regimes where deep clinical models can fail to generalize. This work emphasizes the need for n
00826|Activation Regression for Continuous Domain Generalization with Applications to Crop Classification
   > variance in satellite imagery impacts the ability of machine learning models to generalise to new regions. In this paper, we model geographic generalisation in medium resolution Landsat-8 satellite imagery as a continuous domain adaptation problem, demonstrating how models generalise better with appropriate domain knowledge. We develop a dataset spatially distributed across … classification in mul
00827|Cross Domain Early Crop Mapping with Label Spaces Discrepancies using MultiCropGAN
   > truth is critical for global food security. Utilizing multispectral remote sensing and domain adaptation methods, prior studies strive to produce precise crop maps in these regions (target domain) with the help of the crop-specific labelled remote sensing data from the source regions (source domain). However, existing approaches assume identical label spaces across those domains, a … Network (Mult
00828|A customized MobileNetV3Large-based deep learning framework for plant disease detection
   > lightweight, portable, and effective framework for detecting plant diseases. The model was trained on a hybrid dataset consisting of 26 classes that combined field-collected images … available sources, utilizing transfer learning and fine-tuning techniques to ensure robustness against real-world conditions such as changing lighting and background clutter. In order to improve model generalization a
00829|A Machine Learning Technique for Rice Blast Disease Severity Prediction Using K-Means SMOTE Class Balancing
   > SMOTE and SMOTE oversampling techniques to balance training and testing data. Finally, cross-location and cross-year models are developed using a linear support vector machine and predict the … of rice blast disease to the classes 0, 1, 2, 3, respectively. Cross-year and cross-location models are cross-validated using five-fold cross-validation.
00830|Identifying climate and environmental determinants of spatial disparities in wheat production using a geospatial machine learning model
   > different cultivation practices, water and fertilizer management, and adaptive variety selection across different regions. However, existing methods primarily focused on identifying single-variable factors while lacking
00831|Under-Canopy Navigation for an Agricultural Rover Based on Image Data
   > [no abstract]
00832|Phenotyping grapevine resistance to downy mildew: deep learning as a promising tool to assess sporulation and necrosis
   > [no term] BACKGROUND: Downy mildew is a plant disease that affects all cultivated European grapevine varieties. The disease is caused by the oomycete Plasmopara viticola. The current strategy to control this threat
00833|Leveraging scenario differences for cross-task generalization in water plant transfer machine learning models
   > enhance efficiency, and curb resource consumption amid growing sustainability demands. Yet, their transferability across plants is hampered by scenario differences—variations in environmental factors, protocols, and … necessitate energy-intensive retraining. While existing strategies focus on minimizing these differences via domain adaptation or fine-tuning, none exploit them as inherent prior kno
00834|An Improved Activation Function in Convolution Neural Network to Estimate the Hazardous Air Pollutant Based on Images
   > [no abstract]
00835|Crop Mapping Based on Sentinel-2 Images Using Semantic Segmentation Model of Attention Mechanism
   > models. We cross verified the trained model on the test sets of different years through transfer learning in both spatiotemporal and spatial dimensions. Proving the
00836|Machine learning approach for wheat variety identification using single-seed imaging
   > that the CNN-GAP model achieved the highest accuracy (92.19%) and demonstrated superior generalization stability compared with EfficientNet-B4 and Inception-ResNet-v2 models. PCA-based dimensionality reduction enhanced MLP performance, yielding 86.0% accuracy. Cross-domain testing on chickpea seeds highlighting sensitivity to domain shifts and emphasizing the need for species-specific training dat
00837|A novel hybrid segmentation technique for identification of wheat rust diseases
   > [no abstract]
00838|Water pollution and water quality assessment and application of criterion impact loss (CILOS), geographical information system (GIS), artificial neura
   > TDS, and Cl - were emerged as essential elements for water quality degradation. Based on the results, the strongest association between the best qualities and … into account while calculating the final ranking. Comparing the suggested methods to other regions, SP-(9) may have been the most polluted area, followed by SP-(8)
00839|Establishing hybrid deep learning models for regional daily rainfall time series forecasting in the United Kingdom
   > rainfall by identifying the impact of temperature variations on rainfall patterns in different regions of the United Kingdom (UK). The meteorological data was collected from
00840|Advancing food security: Rice yield estimation framework using time-series satellite data & machine learning
   > area exhibits an increasing trend in boro rice yield, 0.11% shows a decreasing trend, and 76.51% of the area demonstrates no trend in rice yield. … the proposed workflow can be easily applied to estimate rice yields in other regions worldwide.
00841|Evaluation and improvement of temporal robustness and transfer performance of surface soil moisture estimated by machine learning regression algorithm
   > [no abstract]
00842|Accurate identification of de novo genes in plant genomes using machine learning algorithms
   > showed high levels of accuracy and recall within-genomes. Although accuracies and recall decreased in cross-species analyses, they remained elevated between evolutionary closely related species. A few training
00843|Habitat potential modelling and mapping of Teucrium polium using machine learning techniques
   > [no abstract]
00844|Characterization and Identification of NPK Stress in Rice Using Terrestrial Hyperspectral Images
   > The total accuracy of the SHCFTT model under different modeling strategies and different years ranged from 93.92% to 100%, indicating the positive effect of the
00845|Intra-Day Solar Power Forecasting Strategy for Managing Virtual Power Plants
   > a method to efficiently produce intra-day accurate Photovoltaic (PV) power forecasts at different locations, by using free and available information. Prediction intervals, which are based
00846|Identification of organic chemical indicators for tracking pollution sources in groundwater by machine learning from GC-HRMS-based suspect and non-tar
   > forensics workflow, focusing on groundwater contamination. Groundwater samples were collected from four different regions with diverse contamination histories (namely oil [OC], agricultural [AGR], industrial [IND],
00847|Improved Remote Sensing Methods to Detect Northern Wild Rice (Zizania palustris L.)
   > [no term] Declining populations of Zizania palustris L. (northern wildrice, or wildrice) during the last century drives the demand for new and innovative techniques to support monitoring of this culturally and ecologically
00848|Study on Soil Erosion Driving Forces by Using (R)USLE Framework and Machine Learning: A Case Study in Southwest China
   > Soil erosion often leads to land degradation, agricultural production reduction, and environmental deterioration, which seriously restricts the sustainable development … of current research on the driving factors/force changes of soil erosion in different regions or under different erosion intensity grades, this paper pioneered to use
00849|Toward a Simple and Generic Approach for Identifying Multi-Year Cotton Cropping Patterns Using Landsat and Sentinel-2 Time Series
   > robust in identifying multi-year cropping patterns, and it could be applied in other regions.
00850|Attention-Based Multiscale Feature Pyramid Network for Corn Pest Detection under Wild Environment
   > [no term] Simple Summary Corn pest recognition and detection is an important step for Integrated Pest Management. Generally, traditional methods adopt manual observation and counting in wild field to monitor the occurrence
00851|Classification of Synthetic Aperture Radar-Ground Range Detected Image Using Advanced Convolution Neural Networks
   > [no abstract]
00852|Reliable genomic strategies for species classification of plant genetic resources
   > [no term] BACKGROUND: To address the need for easy and reliable species classification in plant genetic resources collections, we assessed the potential of five classifiers (Random Forest, Neighbour-Joining, 1-Nearest Neighbour, a conservative
00853|Modelling Coal Dust Explosibility of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Coal Using Random Forest Algorithm
   > is rarely studied under Artificial Intelligence (AI) based modelling. Coal from three different regions of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan, was tested for explosibility in 1.2 L
00854|Impact of land use evolution on the value of ecosystem services in the returned farmland area of the Loess Plateau in northern Shaanxi
   > In the past 30 years, the area of cultivated land showed a decreasing trend, whereas the land areas used for other purposes increased. (2) In … data for the compensation of interregional ecology and provides model cases for other regions for ecosystem management.
00855|Using unsupervised neural network approach to improve classification of satellite images
   > useful for mapping and assessing change in the spatial extent of the different regions over time. Several techniques for processing satellite images allow the use
00856|High-resolution cropland mapping in China’s Huang-Huai-Hai Plain: The coupling of machine learning methods and prior information
   > [no abstract]
00857|Identification of new marker genes from plant single-cell RNA-seq data using interpretable machine learning methods
   > identify cell-type marker genes from scRNA-seq data and pave the way for cross-species mapping of scRNA-seq data in plants.
00858|Cross-Domain Multitask Model for Head Detection and Facial Attribute Estimation
   > which computes a collection of mid-level shared features in conjunction with some independent neural networks, for the detection of faces and the estimation of poses. … and 6.2 ± 4.7, and 6.6 ± 4.9 on BIWI dataset. The generalization capability of the model and its cross-domain effectiveness was assessed on the publicly available dataset of UTKFace for face
00859|Transferability of a random forest model for resistance prediction between different regions in Europe
   > of Alopecurus myosuroides populations in Southern Germany was created. In this study transferability of the model with respect to regions and comparable weeds was analysed
00860|Using UAVRS and deep learning to conduct resource surveys of threatened Tibetan medicinal plants in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau
   > [no term] Gentiana szechenyii Kanitz. and Gentiana veitchiorum Hemsl. are two wild medicinal plants widely used in Tibetan medicine. In recent decades, their wild populations have declined rapidly due to persistent over-harvesting
00861|Multi-Omics Dissection of Drought Stress Responses in Crops: From Molecular Regulatory Networks to Climate-Resilient Breeding Applications
   > CRISPR-based gene editing. Challenges including data integration complexity, high implementation costs, limited cross-species transferability, and the need for field-scale validation of microbiome-based strategies are critically addressed.
00862|Valorisation of marginal agricultural land in the bioeconomy
   > food production elsewhere (Clifton-Brown et al., 2023). Utilization of marginal, abandoned and degraded land can provide low iLUC risk biomass which is in line with … et al., 2019) and climate warming impacts are likely to speed up degradation of arable into marginal land (European Environment Agency [EEA], 2017; IPCC, 2023).
00863|Bridging temporal gaps: AI-based temporal downscaling of biweekly NH3 to daily scale with spatial transferability
   > and ground-based measurements. Among the models, DNN showed superior performance in both spatial cross-validation and independent testing, achieving a correlation coefficient of 0.79, a root mean square error … scale. When applied to the UK, the model demonstrated its potential for spatial transferability via the leave-one station-out and leave-one year-out cross validations. These findings highli
00864|Modeling impacts of climate-induced yield variability and adaptations on wheat and maize in a sub-tropical monsoon climate - using fuzzy logic
   > climate - and achieving optimal yield. The approach is also applicable to other regions of the country and similar monsoon climates.
00865|Automated Wildlife Monitoring Using Deep Learning
   > [no term] In many real life applications animal detection based researches are very essential. Methods for animal detection are helpful to know about the moving behavioral of targeted animal and to prevent
00866|Advanced hyperspectral image processing and machine learning approaches for early detection of wheat stem rust
   > diseases, yet its adoption is often hindered by spectral variability, noise, and distribution shifts across acquisition conditions. In this study, we present a systematic preprocessing … inoculation, which was not achievable without preprocessing. The framework demonstrates potential for generalization beyond plant pathology, suggesting applicability to a range of hyperspectral remote sensing
00867|An Efficient Deep Learning-based approach for Recognizing Agricultural Pests in the Wild
   > transfer learning with finetuning, attention mechanism and custom architecture. Some example from another dataset D0 is also shown to show robustness of our experimented techniques.
00868|Joint plant-spraypoint detector with ConvNeXt modules and HistMatch normalization
   > from the recently proposed ConvNeXt was developed, tested for its effectiveness on unseen field data, and enhanced with a novel normalization technique, called HistMatch. Key … simpler environments encountered in early-stage crop fields, our model was able to generalize well to growing conditions not seen during training, achieving 0.807 mIoU and
00869|Evaluating the potential of burn severity mapping and transferability of Copernicus EMS data using Sentinel-2 imagery and machine learning approaches
   > identifying senescent plants. The results also confirmed that the CEMS dataset has transferability as a reference truth for fire damage classification in other regions. Implementation of this method enables fast and accurate mapping of the
00870|Estimation of leaf nitrogen concentration in wheat using the MK-SVR algorithm and satellite remote sensing data
   > [no abstract]
00871|Weed Classification Using Explainable Multi-Resolution Slot Attention
   > represents attention maps with highlighted requirements and information about misclassification to enable cross-dataset evaluations. State-of-the-art comparisons represent classification developments after applying attention maps. Average accuracies
00872|Gully erosion susceptibility prediction in Mollisols using machine learning models
   > In recent years, gully erosion has caused soil loss, land degradation, and a large sediment yield in the Mollisols in northeastern China, threatening … of the study area was more susceptible to gully erosion than the other regions. These results can help managers to identify the regions that are
00873|Emergence and spread of the barley net blotch pathogen coincided with crop domestication and cultivation history
   > teres is structured into populations that tend to be geographically restricted to different regions. Using Multiple Sequentially Markovian Coalescent and machine learning approaches we demonstrated
00874|A Multi-Temporal Agricultural Remote Sensing Framework for Sustainable Crop Yield Estimation with Economic Impact
   > its effectiveness in both continuous yield prediction and stable yield-level region identification. Cross-region and cross-year validation further indicate strong generalization capability, with R2 remaining above 0.65 in unseen regions and around 0.67 under cross-year prediction settings. Ablation studies confirm the synergistic contributions of multi-scale spatial modeling,
00875|Exploring Transferable Techniques to Retrieve Crop Biophysical and Biochemical Variables Using Sentinel-2 Data
   > The current study aimed to determine the spatial transferability of eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) models for estimating biophysical and biochemical … 25%, 50%, and 75%) available at the Target site (DT) on the spatial transferability of the XGBoost models and (2) evaluate the effect of the Source site (DS) (i.e., trained) model accuracy on the Target site (i.e., unseen) retrieval uncertainty
00876|Wild plant data collection system based on distributed location
   > process with the distributed location information. Meanwhile, to solve weak signal problem in the wild field, the library buffer of neighboring area where recent searching
00877|Robust Object Detection Under Smooth Perturbations in Precision Agriculture
   > for training. Furthermore, we introduce an additional test set that represents the out-of-distribution (O.O.D.) case by applying Gaussian blur on test images to simulate particle … proposed smooth perturbation is an effective method to increase the robustness and generalizability of the object detection task.
00878|An ensemble estimate of Australian soil organic carbon using machine learning and process-based modelling
   > a crucial foundation for effective land management strategies aimed at mitigating soil degradation and assessing carbon sequestration potential. Here, using more than 1000 in-situ observations, … 30 cm of soil in Australia. Parameters of MIMICS were optimized for different site groupings, using two distinct approaches, plant functional types (MIMICS-PFT), and the
00879|Detection of Wild Mushrooms Using Machine Learning and Computer Vision
   > [no term] The increasing global demand for sustainable and high-quality agricultural products has driven interest in precision agriculture technologies. This study presents a novel approach to wild mushroom detection, particularly focusing on
00880|Digital Twin Approach for Fault Diagnosis in Photovoltaic Plant DC–DC Converters
   > emulations. The results show high classification accuracy, robustness to environmental fluctuations, and transferability across system configurations. The framework also demonstrates compatibility with low-cost deployment hardware,
00881|Cross-species prediction of essential genes in insects
   > [no term] MOTIVATION: Insects possess a vast phenotypic diversity and key ecological roles. Several insect species also have medical, agricultural and veterinary importance as parasites and disease vectors. Therefore, strategies to identify
00882|An Intelligent Animal Repellent System for Crop Protection: A Deep Learning Approach
   > [no term] Human Wildlife Conflicts (HWC) refers to the negative interactions between human and wild animals, with undesirable consequences both for people and their resources, on the one hand, and wildlife and
00883|Digital mapping of selected soil properties using machine learning and geostatistical techniques in Mashhad plain, northeastern Iran
   > agriculture in areas at different conditions. This method can be applied to other regions of similar characteristics and for similar purposes.
00884|SoilType: An R package to interplay soil characterization in plant science
   > Therefore, soil‐related information can increase the predictive ability of genotype's performances across different locations. However, soil information is not always readily available worldwide or before … can support breeders in better allocating trials in advance, borrow information from other regions, identify the best variety for each location, reduce costs, and increase
00885|Evaluating the Capability of Sentinel-1 Data in the Classification of Canola and Wheat at Different Growth Stages and in Different Years
   > canola and wheat in different growth statuses induced by agrometeorological conditions in different years. The capability and stability of Sentinel-1 for wheat and canola mapping … The classification accuracies and the feature importance scores from multi-temporal classification in different years show that the backscattering features obtained at flowering to maturity stages
00886|Exploration of chemical markers using a metabolomics strategy and machine learning to study the different origins of Ixeris denticulata (Houtt.) Stebb
   > chemical markers that cause quality and taste differences in I. denticulata from different regions are currently unclear. In this study, samples from 8 different origins
00887|Spatial Interpolation of Gravimetric Soil Moisture Using EM38-mk Induction and Ensemble Machine Learning (Case Study from Dry Steppe Zone in Volgograd
   > the gravimetric soil moisture was carried out with the stepwise inclusion of independent variables, using methods of ensemble machine learning and spatial cross-validation. The obtained cartographic models showed satisfactory results with the best performance
00888|Machine learning-assisted laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy method for the detection of Pb and Cr in soils from different regions
   > Rv2 values above 0.99 and reducing detection errors by over 5-fold. Finally, external validation was conducted using 51 real soil samples collected from 11 provinces … LIBS method had high-sensitivity and robust detection performance for heavy metals in cross-regional soils.
00889|Optimising Solar Power Plant Reliability Using Neural Networks for Fault Detection and Diagnosis
   > Augmenting the data set by integrating data from various PV stations in different regions may improve the adaptability of the model to different environmental conditions.
00890|Soil buffering capacity enhances maize yield resilience amidst climate perturbations
   > [no abstract]
00891|Multiclass insect counting through deep learning-based density maps estimation
   > an app via REST service in mobile devices. It has been tested in the wild under real conditions in different locations worldwide and over 14 different crops.
00892|Changing Climate Threatens Irrigation Benefits of Maize Gross Primary Productivity in China
   > and energy balance. Assuming business‐as‐usual irrigation levels, changing climate both increases and decreases ΔGPP over different regions, driven primarily by temperature changes. The irrigation benefits in those areas
00893|A 3D-convolutional-autoencoder embedded Siamese-attention-network for classification of hyperspectral images
   > [no abstract]
00894|Deep Learning for Smart Agriculture: A Comprehensive Review of CNN Architectures, Multispectral Imaging, Explainable AI and Transfer Learning for Crop
   > building agronomist trust and regulatory acceptability. The synthesis identifies persistent challenges including domain shift, class imbalance, computational constraints in field deployable systems, and the scarcity
00895|Machine learning-assisted analysis for agronomic dataset of 49 Balangu (Lallemantia iberica L.) ecotypes from different regions of Iran
   > oil, and protein food. In this study, 49 ecotypes were collected from different regions of Iran. 37 agronomic traits were measured during the growing season
00896|Convolutional neural networks and outline analyses for archaeobotanical studies of domestication and subspecific identification
   > [no term] The identification of archaeological fruits and seeds is crucial for understanding the relationships between humans and plants within the cultural and biological history of both wild and cultivated species. We
00897|A screening system to predict wildfire risk of invasive plants
   > around the world, it can likely be applied with minimal modification to other regions where invasive plants pose potential fire risks.
00898|Developing machine learning models for air temperature estimation using MODIS data
   > scale, suggest that these methodologies have the potential to be applied to other regions.
00899|Winter Wheat Yield Estimation by Fusing CNN–MALSTM Deep Learning with Remote Sensing Indices
   > Henan Province was constructed. Through cross-validation, the stability of the model in different years was assessed. The results showed that the model could obtain the
00900|Members of BTB gene family regulate negatively nitrate uptake and nitrogen use efficiency in Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa
   > we experimentally tested BT2 for a role in NUE. We found NUE decreased in plants overexpressing BT2 gene compared to wild-type plants under limiting nitrate
00901|National-scale 10 m annual maize maps for China and the contiguous United States using a robust index from Sentinel-2 time series
   > [no abstract]
00902|Predicting grain yield of maize using a new multispectral-based canopy volumetric vegetation index
   > and predicted maize yield using BP increased from 0.81 to 0.86 (RMSE decreased from 0.93 to 0.67 t/ha). The R 2 between actual maize yield and predicted maize yield using RF increased from 0.91 to 0.94 (RMSE decreased from 0.65 to 0.42 t/ha). The robustness of the proposed model was … strategies, and results implied that the models was stable across sensors and different years. Overall, this study
00903|Three-dimensional soil salinity mapping with uncertainty using Bayesian Hierarchical Modelling, Random Forest Regression and remote sensing data
   > RFR had similar and moderate accuracy in soil salinity prediction in the leave-one-location-out cross-validation (R 2 = 0.45–0.51 for BHM and R 2 = 0.48–0.52
00904|Prediction and classification of wheat plant disease in Pakistan using deep learning techniques
   > been very rarely addressed. In this research, several deep learning models were trained on a dataset of wheat plant disease images, which were collected from research labs and by taking images through Android mobile cameras from different regions of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Punjab. The dataset contains 650 images with
00905|Rehearsal-based class-incremental learning approaches for plant disease classification
   > approaches on images with significantly different distribution. To improve the prediction and generalization performance of these out-of-distribution leaf images captured in complex scenes of the real-world, we propose a
00906|Spatial domain bridge transfer : An automated paddy rice mapping method with no training data required and decreased image inputs for the large cloudy
   > [no abstract]
00907|Topological and kernel-based microbial phenotype prediction from MALDI-TOF mass spectra
   > consistently outperforms competitor approaches, while demonstrating improved performance and security by rejecting out-of-distribution samples, such as bacterial species that are not represented in the training
00908|Cross-Domain Transfer Learning for Natural Scene Classification of Remote-Sensing Imagery
   > resulting in quicker and more accurate models. In this study, we deployed cross-domain transfer learning for the land-cover classification of remotely sensed images of natural … terms of the classification accuracy. The experimental results showed that the deployed cross-domain transfer-learning system achieved outstanding (99.5% and 99.1%) accurate performances compared to previous
00909|PRGminer: harnessing deep learning for the prediction of resistance genes involved in plant defense mechanisms
   > of 98.75% in a k -fold training/testing procedure, and 95.72% on an independent testing) with a high Matthews correlation coefficient (0.98 training and 0.91 in independent testing) in Phase I; phase II (overall accuracy of 97.55% in a k -fold training/testing and 97.21% in an independent testing) with the MCC values of 0.93 for k -fold training procedure and 0.92 in an independent testing. PRGmin
00910|Broad Dataset and Methods for Counting and Localization of On-Ear Corn Kernels
   > results, is lightweight enough for edge deployment, and maintains its computational efficiency independent of the number of kernels in the image. Additionally, we seek to … counting application space and secondly promotes further research in transfer learning and domain adaptation, large count segmentation methods, and edge deployment methods.
00911|Explainability and privacy in AI-enabled crop monitoring: Trends and future directions in soybean research
   > [no abstract]
00912|Use of multivariate analysis and machine learning methods to characterize traits contributing to wheat yield diversity
   > total, the data corresponding to 22 agronomic traits was collected from six different regions (Darab, Kavar, Marvdasht, Fasa, Lar, and Khonj) of 90 farms of
00913|Moisture Prediction of Biomass Fuel Based on Near-Infrared Spectroscopy and Deep Learning Algorithm
   > were simulated in an experimental setup. Multiple types of biomass samples from different regions were prepared under different moisture environments and scanned to obtain the
00914|Detecting fruit ripeness in the wild: A robust deep learning model and the comprehensive and diverse fruit ripeness benchmark
   > [no abstract]
00915|Conserving Oceans from Plastic Waste using Convolution Neural Network Model
   > but also can kill marine animals and cause the marine diversity to degrade. Internet of Things (IoT) is a new technology which has sensing capabilities … sensors are deployed deep into the ocean which take pictures of the different regions in the ocean. Next, the VGG16 CNN (Convolutional Neural Network) deep
00916|Fully convolutional neural nets in-the-wild
   > suitable training data. Here the FCN8 model is trained and evaluated in real-world conditions, so called in-the-wild, for the classification of opium poppy and cereal … patches and transfer learning. Overall accuracy was 88% for a FCN8 model transfer-trained on all 3 years of data and complex features were successfully grouped
00917|Machine Learning for Detecting Potato Populations Using SSR Markers
   > [no abstract]
00918|Classification of remote sensing time series and similarity metrics for crop type verification
   > is to build robust classification models that reduce calibration efforts, ensure model transferability to unseen data distributions, and handle high semantic resolution datasets with a relatively large number of target classes. We present an operational domain adaptation framework for crop type verification from remote sensing data for integrated … the ag|knowledge crop monitoring platform and dem
00919|Sustainable Textile Manufacturing with Revolutionizing Textile Dyeing: Deep Learning-Based, for Energy Efficiency and Environmental-Impact Reduction, 
   > reduce water and energy consumption in textile dyeing processes, minimize waste, and decrease the carbon footprint. This approach has become crucial in achieving sustainability in … results, have enabled advanced forecasting of electricity consumption in dyeing processes for future years. In 2020, electricity consumption was recorded as 3,717,224 kWh and this
00920|An efficient banana plant leaf disease classification using optimal ensemble deep transfer network
   > predictability for banana leaf disease using Maximum Mean Discrepancy (MMD), ensemble learning, domain adaptation, and parameter transfer learning. The feature extraction is done by constructing
00921|Multispectral data and random forest model outperform deep learning in predicting lentil maturity using UAS imagery
   > this study aimed to streamline the maturity prediction process by investigating the independent predictive capabilities of narrow spectral bands. Additionally, our research evaluated various machine … learning models. The key findings of the study showed that (1) models trained on multispectral imagery consistently outperformed those using RGB, highlighting the advantage of
00922|Enhancing global maritime traffic network forecasting with gravity-inspired deep learning models
   > trade and transportation networks, NIS has been introduced and spread unintentionally in new environments. This study develops a new physics-informed model to forecast maritime shipping
00923|Random forest regression to predict Farinograph traits from GlutoPeak output in wheat wild relative backcross lines
   > [no term] Abstract Background and Objectives Flour quality is a key target of hard winter wheat breeding. The Farinograph is important for assessing quality before cultivar release in the United States, but
00924|Assessing Cardiac Amyloidosis Subtypes by Unsupervised Phenotype Clustering Analysis
   > neural network-based self-organizing maps to identify patient profiles (clusters) with similar characteristics, independent of the final diagnosis and prognosis. RESULTS Mean age and left ventricular
00925|Generalization Ability of Bagging and Boosting Type Deep Learning Models in Evapotranspiration Estimation
   > The potential of generalized deep learning models developed for crop water estimation was examined in the … from January 1976 to December 2017 and then immediately applied at eleven different locations (Ballari, Chikmaglur, Chitradurga, Devnagiri, Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri, Koppal, Mandya, Shivmoga, and
00926|Machine learning-based frequency security early warning considering uncertainty of renewable generation
   > [no abstract]
00927|FARMSAR: Fixing AgRicultural Mislabels Using Sentinel-1 Time Series and AutoencodeRs
   > (SAR) time series of free-to-use and temporally dense Sentinel-1 data, we detect out-of-distribution temporal profiles of crop time series, which we categorize as one out … against up to 91% for Random Forest-based approaches. We show a drastic decrease in the performance of supervised algorithms under critical conditions (smaller and larger
00928|Optimizing rice variety classification with transfer learning: A robust and scalable model for agricultural applications
   > provide key structural and textural features for robust rice variety classification in real-world conditions. • Fine-tuned ResNet50 with custom layers, dropout, batch norm, and L2
00929|Carbon sequestration potential in croplands in Lesotho
   > [no abstract]
00930|Crop field segmentation and irrigation water source attribution for groundwater monitoring and projection toward conservation in the Texas High Plains
   > Future projections indicate an annual groundwater level decline of approximately 1.9–2.0 m, decreasing from 109–111 m in 2024 to 119–121 m by 2030. These results … for monitoring and projecting groundwater depletion, with potential applicability of scaling to other regions facing similar challenges.
00931|Cost Forecasting Model of Transformer Substation Projects Based on Data Inconsistency Rate and Modified Deep Convolutional Neural Network
   > been validated by a case study that selects 128 substation projects in different regions for training and testing. The modeling results demonstrate that this established
00932|TGDHTL: Hyperspectral Image Classification via Transformer–Graph Convolutional Network–Diffusion with Hybrid Domain Adaptation
   > networks (GANs), show promise, they struggle with spectral fidelity, computational efficiency, and cross-domain adaptation in label-scarce scenarios. To address these challenges, we propose the Transformer–Graph Convolutional Network–Diffusion with Hybrid Domain Adaptation (TGDHTL) framework. This framework integrates domain-adaptive alignment of RGB and HSI … methods. This framework provides a sc
00933|Supervised and unsupervised machine learning approaches using Sentinel data for flood mapping and damage assessment in Mozambique
   > to understand the sensitivity of each method when applied to data from different regions and with different polarizations. We then trained the unsupervised model globally
00934|Leveraging Remotely Sensed and Climatic Data for Improved Crop Yield Prediction in the Chi Basin, Thailand
   > to a conventional regression method and that it may be deployed in different regions to assist farmers and policymakers in making more informed decisions about
00935|Calibration transfer of sugar content prediction models for agricultural products via NIR spectral augmentation and reconstruction architecture
   > [no abstract]
00936|Spatial prediction of soil salinity: Remote sensing and machine learning approach
   > [no abstract]
00937|Effectiveness of Genomic Selection by Response to Selection for Winter Wheat Variety Improvement
   > by cross-validations are significantly overestimated. Nonparametric algorithms outperform the parametric alternatives in cross-year predictions. Strategically designing training population improves response to selection. Response to selection … random forest (RF) produced higher accuracies in both same-year cross-validations (CVs) and cross-year predictions for the purpose of line selection. Furth
00938|Implementation of real time root crop leaf classification using CNN on raspberry-Pi microprocessor
   > leaves. The consistent high accuracy maintained across different hardware platforms and in real-world conditions demonstrates the robustness and versatility of the developed models.
00939|Wild Isolates of Neurospora crassa Reveal Three Conidiophore Architectural Phenotypes
   > [no term] The vegetative life cycle in the model filamentous fungus, Neurospora crassa, relies on the development of conidiophores to produce new spores. Environmental, temporal, and genetic components of conidiophore development have
00940|Successful classification of pregnant and empty ultrasound imagery of sheep using convolutional neural network
   > Neural Network with two convolutional layers and one fully connected layer was trained on each. During internal testing, both models achieved 100% ewe-level classification accuracy, … unbalanced model required a higher decision threshold (0.80) to achieve optimal performance. External evaluation on an independent cohort of 390 ewes demonstrated high diagnostic accuracy for both models, with
00941|Improved U-Shaped Convolutional Neural Network with Convolutional Block Attention Module and Feature Fusion for Automated Segmentation of Fine Roots i
   > in low-contrast regions; and (3) a transfer learning protocol to enable robust cross-species generalization. Our model achieves state-of-the-art performance with a mean intersection over union (mIoU)
00942|Transfer learning for process fault diagnosis: Knowledge transfer from simulation to physical processes
   > learning network is designed by integrating the convolutional neural network and advanced domain adaptation techniques. Two case studies are used to illustrate the effectiveness of
00943|RiceSNP-ABST: a deep learning approach to identify abiotic stress-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms in rice
   > machine learning and state-of-the-art methods on the benchmark dataset and demonstrated consistent generalization on an independent dataset and cross-species datasets. Notably, multi-granularity causal structure learning was employed to elucidate the relationships
00944|Quantification in-the-wild: data-sets and baselines
   > [no term] Quantification is the task of estimating the class-distribution of a data-set. While typically considered as a parameter estimation problem with strict assumptions on the data-set shift, we consider quantification in-the-wild,
00945|Using HS-GC-MS and flash GC e-nose in combination with chemometric analysis and machine learning algorithms to identify the varieties, geographical or
   > [no abstract]
00946|Comparative metagenomics reveals expanded insights into intra- and interspecific variation among wild bee microbiomes
   > [no term] The holobiont approach proposes that species are most fully understood within the context of their associated microbiomes, and that both host and microbial community are locked in a mutual circuit
00947|Instance Segmentation to Estimate Consumption of Corn Ears by Wild Animals for GMO Preference Tests
   > [no term] The Genetically Modified (GMO) Corn Experiment was performed to test the hypothesis that wild animals prefer Non-GMO corn and avoid eating GMO corn, which resulted in the collection of complex
00948|An Edge-computing flow meter reading recognition algorithm optimized for agricultural IoT network
   > efficiency in the management of groundwater resources in Nebraska, and potentially in other regions as well.
00949|Knowledge-Guided Machine Learning for County-Level Corn Yield Prediction Under Drought
   > features within the model, and analyzing how soil moisture impacts predictions across different regions and time periods. Finally we provided interpretability for prediction errors to
00950|Evolutionary trends and analysis of the driving factors of Ulva prolifera green tides: A study based on the random forest algorithm and multisource re
   > farmlands to combat overgrowth-induced green tides. This methodology could be applied in other regions affected by marine ecological disasters, and the criteria for selecting influencing
00951|Plant Disease Detection Using Machine Learning
   > simple background datasets like Plant Village, which may not perform well in real-world conditions with complex backgrounds and occlusions. To address these limitations, non-invasive, image-based … effective, and eliminate the need for in-situ data collection. The models are tested on various datasets, using handcrafted feature extraction techniques and novel image segmentation
00952|Using machine learning to generate an open-access cropland map from satellite images time series in the Indian Himalayan region
   > very high resolution (VHR) imagery. We trained and validated the models via spatial cross-validation to account for local spatial autocorrelation and selected the RF model due to overall robustness and lower computational cost. We tested the generalization capability of the chosen model at the pixel level by computing the
00953|Towards a robust out-of-the-box neural network model for genomic data
   > sample sizes, sparsity, and extreme heterogeneity. RESULTS: Here, we investigate the robustness, generalization potential and prediction accuracy of widely used convolutional neural network and natural … outperform convolutional neural network models in terms of prediction accuracy, overfitting and transferability across the datasets under study. CONCLUSIONS: While the perspective of a robust
00954|Development and validation of a crop yield prediction framework accounting for regional heterogeneity: A case study of spring maize in Jilin Province
   > [no abstract]
00955|Evaluation of water flux predictive models developed using eddy-covariance observations and machine learning: a meta-analysis
   > Among the different validation methods, random cross-validation shows higher model accuracy than spatial cross-validation and temporal cross-validation, but spatial cross-validation is more important for the application for water flux predictive models
00956|Enhancing Winter Wheat Yield Estimation With a CNN-Transformer Hybrid Framework Utilizing Multiple Remotely Sensed Parameters
   > of high yield underestimation and low yield overestimation observed. The robustness and generalization of the CNN-transformers were further assessed through the fivefold cross-validation and the leave-one-year-out methods. In addition, utilizing the CNN-transformers, the study uncovered the cumulative impact
00957|Early-Season Mapping of Winter Wheat and Garlic in Huaihe Basin Using Sentinel-1/2 and Landsat-7/8 Imagery
   > an OA of 0.91. The proposed framework can also be implemented in other regions and crops to generate early season distribution maps of different crops.
00958|TKSF-KAN: Transformer-enhanced oat yield modeling and transferability across major oat-producing regions in China using UAV multisource data
   > [no abstract]
00959|Multi-source soft sensor model for industrial processes based on graph convolution and dual-constraint adversarial domain generalization
   > Abstract To address the issue of poor generalization performance of soft sensor models owing to multimode characteristics within process data … labeling, this paper proposes a Multi-Source Graph Convolution and Dual Constraint Adversarial Domain Generalization (MSGCN-DADG) soft sensor model. Multimode data constitute multiple source domains, and treat the process variable in the source domain as a
00960|Estimation of soil temperature for agricultural applications in South Africa using machine-learning methods
   > soil temperature estimations. The developed models can be applied with caution in other regions with similar climatological and pedological properties.
00961|Multi-granularity alignment for crop diseases detection
   > differences in the spatial distribution features of training and testing data. Models trained on specific datasets often perform poorly when applied to detect crop diseases in new datasets, significantly affecting the performance of cross-domain object detection tasks. To address the challenges of cross-domain crop disease object detection, this paper proposes a Multi-Granularity Alignment (MGA) d
00962|Development of Smart Farming Technology on Ginger Plants in Padamulya Ciamis Village, West Java, Indonesia
   > The findings serve as a foundation for scaling up similar projects in other regions of Indonesia and beyond, contributing to the nation's agricultural modernization and
00963|Soil type identification model using a hybrid computer vision and machine learning approach
   > [no abstract]
00964|Animal detection in farms using machine learning
   > [no term] Agriculture is extremely important to a country’s development. Agricultural issues have consistently stymied the country’s progress. Farmers face a slew of problems, including a lack of water for irrigation, crops
00965|Automatic deforestation driver attribution using deep learning on satellite imagery
   > [no abstract]
00966|Physics-Driven Machine-Learning Retrieval and Uncertainty Quantification of Crop Leaf Area Index
   > uncertainty. The model was developed in Minqin (modelling/testing area; entirely maize) and transferred to Zhangye (transfer/validation area; predominantly maize, with one sunflower plot). Sentinel-2B validation results were RMSE/R2 = 0.44/0.73 (Minqin) and 0.40/0.56 (Zhangye), indicating reasonable cross-site generalisation. The uncertainty split indicates physical-driven contributions of 11.42% 
00967|Foundation models in plant molecular biology: advances, challenges, and future directions
   > A foundation model (FM) is a neural network trained on large-scale data using unsupervised or self-supervised learning, capable of adapting to … elements, alongside universal FMs like GENERator and Evo 2, which leverage extensive cross-species training data for sequence design and prediction of mutation effects. Key opportunities
00968|RETRACTED ARTICLE: Evaluation of mangrove wetland potential based on convolutional neural network and development of film and television cultural crea
   > [no abstract]
00969|Yield Prediction for Winter Wheat with Machine Learning Models Using Sentinel-1, Topography, and Weather Data
   > radar data together with respective field topography and local weather over four different years. We note that all of the input data were freely available.
00970|Distribution mapping of five threatened medicinally important plant species of Arunachal Himalaya
   > [no abstract]
00971|Dissecting cell identity via network inference and in silico gene perturbation
   > [no term] A machine-learning-based strategy called CellOracle combines computational perturbation with modelling of gene-regulatory networks to analyse how cell identity is regulated by transcription factors, and correctly predicts phenotypic changes after transcription
00972|Integrated groundwater quality assessment using geochemical modelling and machine learning approach in Northern India
   > by contamination. A comprehensive study was conducted for groundwater quality at 23 different locations in Kasganj, Uttar Pradesh, India, utilizing state-of-the-art Water Quality Indexing (WQI) … Variations in IWQI indicators—Na%, SAR, MH, and KL ratio—informed irrigation fit for different sites. The use of advanced machine learning models (ANN, RF, XGB) for
00973|A Precipitation forecasting in central ecotone region in Brazil using artificial neural networks and public climatic data
   > Networks (ANNs) have been used with relative success in precipitation forecasting for different locations and climates. With that, this work presents a method for weekly
00974|Beyond the black box: Enhancing feature explainability in machine learning with SHAP and complementary approaches
   > [no abstract]
00975|A Method of Invasive Alien Plant Identification Based on Hyperspectral Images
   > and time cost, respectively, for recognition of the seven IAPs and background in the wild.
00976|Combination of Hybrid Artificial Neural Networks with Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm for SPEI Forecasting
   > planning. The approach offers a flexible framework that can be adapted to other regions. Future research could incorporate additional climate variables to further enhance prediction
00977|Low soil moisture predisposes field-grown chickpea plants to dry root rot disease: evidence from simulation modeling and correlation analysis
   > DRR incidence was 84.6% with the validation dataset. Field trials at seven different locations in India with combination of low soil moisture and pathogen stress
00978|Identification of KRAS mutation-associated gut microbiota in colorectal cancer and construction of predictive machine learning model
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Gut microbiota has demonstrated an increasingly important role in the onset and development of colorectal cancer (CRC). Nonetheless, the association between gut microbiota and KRAS mutation in CRC remains
00979|Recurrent neural network (RNN) based estimation of per-field wheat yield at an arbitrary time during the growth period
   > during the growth period and yield was also used for comparison. By leave-one-year-out analysis for MLR, in which a model is built with data of
00980|Machine learning based prediction by PlantCdMiner and experimental validation of cadmium-responsive genes in plants
   > [no abstract]
00981|GACDNet:Mapping winter wheat by generative adversarial cross-domain networks with transformer integration for zero-sample extraction
   > [no abstract]
00982|Defective wheat kernel classification using dual-range hyperspectral imaging and an interpretable spectral-spatial fusion convolutional neural network
   > across all wheat kernel categories. Moreover, visualization of classification outputs on the external validation set indicated improved spatial coherence and decision reliability of the SSFCNN. … and online quality control applications after further validation under real sorting-line and cross-domain conditions.
00983|High-Throughput Phenotyping (HTP) Data Reveal Dosage Effect at Growth Stages in Arabidopsis thaliana Irradiated by Gamma Rays
   > [no term] The effects of radiation dosages on plant species are quantitatively presented as the lethal dose or the dose required for growth reduction in mutation breeding. However, lethal dose and growth
00984|Machine learning analysis of gene expression reveals TP53 Mutant-like AML with wild type TP53 and poor prognosis
   > concordant normalized enrichment scores (NES) and FDR < 0.05 in both datasets independently. Genes encoding cell surface markers that are differentially expressed between D TP53Mut
00985|Sorting biotic and abiotic stresses on wild rocket by leaf-image hyperspectral data mining with an artificial intelligence model
   > under intensive cultivation systems devoted to ready-to-eat salad chain, increasing needs for external inputs. Early detection of the abiotic and biotic stresses by using digital
00986|Wild Bird Densities and Landscape Variables Predict Spatial Patterns in HPAI Outbreak Risk across The Netherlands
   > [no term] Highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses’ (HPAIVs) transmission from wild birds to poultry occurs globally, threatening animal and public health. To predict the HPAI outbreak risk in relation to wild bird
00987|Toward raspberry crop monitoring: A review of AI-driven solutions for sustainable agriculture
   > implementations in strawberries, blueberries, tomatoes, grapes, apples, squash, and others, we identify transferable knowledge and benchmarks applicable to raspberry ( Rubus idaeus ) monitoring within … imaging modalities (RGB, multispectral, hyperspectral for pre-symptomatic detection); (b) a tailored ‘knowledge transferability matrix’ that maps potential AI architectures and sensing strategies d
00988|From Prototype to Inference: A Pipeline to Apply Deep Learning in Sorghum Panicle Detection
   > natural environments, the deployment dataset is frequently different from the training data (domain shift) causing the model to fail, so a robust model is essential … we demonstrate our pipeline in a sorghum field, the pipeline can be generalized to other grain species. Our pipeline provides a high-resolution head density map
00989|Reinforcement Learning with Augmented Data
   > are still lacking on two fronts: (a) data-efficiency of learning and (b) generalization to new environments. To this end, we present Reinforcement Learning with Augmented Data (RAD), … Gym benchmark for state-based control. We further demonstrate that RAD significantly improves test-time generalization over existing methods on several OpenAI ProcGen benchmarks. Our RAD module and
00990|Improving losses & accuracy through design of deep convolutional generative adversarial network (DCGAN) for plant disease detection tasks
   > a new Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) architecture is proposed, which offers improved generalization capabilities. The performance of the classification model is evaluated with and without … of synthetic images significantly enhances accuracy, as the enlarged dataset better represents real-world conditions. This approach provides a promising solution for more effective rice disease
00991|Inversion and validation of soil water-holding capacity in a wild fruit forest, using hyperspectral technology combined with machine learning
   > and to select the optimal SWHC model. The spatial distribution of SWHC in the wild fruit forests of Emin County was retrieved using Sentinel-2 imagery.
00992|Unsupervised domain adaptation with self-training for weed segmentation
   > promising, convolutional neural networks (CNNs) often experience performance drops when deployed in new field environments due to shifts between training and test data distributions. To … teacher–student model that adapts CNNs for diverse agricultural contexts. Our method enhances generalization by co-training the student model on both the source domain and pseudo-labelled target domain generated 
00993|Transferability of Models for Predicting Rice Grain Yield from Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Multispectral Imagery across Years, Cultivars and Sensors
   > prediction, but most existing crop yield models have rarely been tested across different years, cultivars and sensors. This has limited the ability of these yield models to be transferred to other years or regions or to be potentially used with data … (VIs) and normalized difference texture indices (NDTIs) were computed. The models were independently validated to test the stability and transferabi
00994|Construction and Evaluation of a Cross-Regional and Cross-Year Monitoring Model for Millet Canopy Phenotype Based on UAV Multispectral Remote Sensing
   > Gradient Boosting, and regularized regressions (e.g., Ridge and Lasso), were evaluated for cross-regional and cross-year extrapolation. The results showed that single-site modeling achieved coefficients of determination (R2) of up to 0.95, with mean relative errors of 10–15% in independent validations. When models were transferred between sites, R2 generally remained between 0.50 and 0.70, althoug
00995|Reference evapotranspiration projections in Southern Spain (until 2100) using temperature-based machine learning models
   > [no abstract]
00996|Geographic Distribution Shift of Invasive Plant Austroeupatorium inulifolium in the Future Climate Projection
   > Aims: This study aims to predict the future geographic distribution shift of invasive plant species Austroeupathorium inulifolium as the impact of global … Study Design: The rising temperature and precipitation change lead to the geographic distribution shift of organisms. A. inulifolium belongs to invasive plant species that often causes a substantial economic loss and ecological degradation in t
00997|Application of self‐organising maps towards segmentation of soybean samples by determination of inorganic compounds content
   > of soybean, both transgenic and conventional cultivars, which were planted in two different regions, Londrina and Ponta Grossa, both located at Paraná, Brazil, were analysed.
00998|Spatiotemporal Dynamic Changes and Prediction of Wild Fruit Forests in Emin County, Xinjiang, China, Based on Random Forest and PLUS Model
   > was very serious, and the area occupied by the wild fruit forest decreased rapidly from 9.59 km2 to 7.66 km2. From 2013 to 2020, suitable
00999|Automated discretization of ‘transpiration restriction to increasing VPD’ features from outdoors high-throughput phenotyping data
   > VPD appeared to have the most striking influence on the transpiration response independently of other environment variable, whereas light, temperature, and relative humidity alone had
01000|A Spatial–Temporal Depth-Wise Residual Network for Crop Sub-Pixel Mapping from MODIS Images
   > different combinations of reflectance bands in MODIS. Last, we conducted spatial and temporal transfer experiments to evaluate model generalization abilities across different regions and years. Our experiments show that the ST-DRes outperforms the other … the datasets of transfer areas and transfer years also demonstrate better spatial–temporal generalization capabilities of the proposed method.
01001|Intelligent identification method of chemical processes based on maximum mean discrepancy domain generalization
   > [no abstract]
01002|Rice Yield Simulation and Planting Suitability Environment Pattern Recognition at a Fine Scale
   > yield and planting suitability as well as the shortcomings and advantages of different regions in terms of the climate, soil, irrigation, site, mechanical farming, and
01003|Identifying barley pan-genome sequence anchors using genetic mapping and machine learning
   > [no term] We identified 1.844 million barley pan-genome sequence anchors from 12,306 genotypes using genetic mapping and machine learning. There is increasing evidence that genes from a given crop genotype are far
01004|Rapid key gene discovery for bacterial shape: a cross-species machine learning approach
   > Genomic and Phenotype-based machine learning for Gene Identification (GPGI), that leverages large-scale, cross-species genomic and phenotypic data for functional gene discovery. Using bacterial rod-shape determination
01005|Deep learning-enabled hyperspectral imaging for high-accuracy non-destructive quantification of nutritional components in multi-variety apples
   > aligned with the N-H/C-H vibrational overtones and aromatic amino acid absorption bands. Cross-year validation of 2024 hyperspectral dataset confirmed the robustness of the model, with
01006|Heterogeneous Graph Neural Networks for Short-Term State Forecasting in Power Systems Across Domains and Time Scales: A Hydroelectric Power Plant Case
   > heterogeneous graph that fuses data across domains, enabling the model to learn cross-domain interactions often neglected in traditional GNNs. The heterogeneous processing introduces signal grouping
01007|Bridging laboratory and field hyperspectral analysis for early detection of potato late blight using Machine learning
   > [no abstract]
01008|Edge-Centric Collaborative Federated Learning for Irrigation Management of Paddy Fields Using Agriculture Sensor Data Processing
   > [no term] This letter explores the integration of federated learning (FL) techniques into edge networks to address the pressing issue of inefficient irrigation practices in paddy fields by proposing a prototype, equipped
01009|Applying Optimized Machine Learning Models for Predicting Unconfined Compressive Strength in Fine-Grained Soil
   > [no abstract]
01010|PROTECTING CROPS FROM WILDLIFE ANIMALS IN SMART AGRICULTURE WITH REAL-TIME OBJECT DETECTION USING YOLOV5 ALGORITHM
   > [no term] Agriculture is essential for human survival, as it provides food, employment, economic growth, livelihood, and rural development, while also maintaining environmental balance and food security. However, due to the damage
01011|Temperature sensitivity of plant litter decomposition rate in China's forests
   > the temperate deciduous forests and boreal Larix forests) than those in the other regions of China. However, the Q 10 values of the broadleaved forests
01012|Approaches for the Prediction of Leaf Wetness Duration with Machine Learning
   > information was collected through meteorological stations placed in coffee plantations in six different regions of Costa Rica, and the leaf wetness duration was measured by
01013|Wheat Cultivation Suitability Evaluation with Stripe Rust Disease: An Agricultural Group Consensus Framework Based on Artificial-Intelligence-Generate
   > conducts experiments using publicly available real wheat stripe rust datasets from four different locations, Ethiopia, India, Turkey, and China, and validates the effectiveness and robustness
01014|Tea Leaf Disease Classification using Domain Adaptation Method
   > makes the traditional deep learning method unable to solve the problem of cross-domain classification very well, thus seriously affecting the accuracy of classification. This study mainly focuses on the cross-domain task with unaligned data distribution. A domain-adaptive based method was proposed to realize the cross-domain classification of tea leaf diseases. The experimental results verify the 
01015|Analysis of behavioral flow resolves latent phenotypes
   > clusters, suffer from low statistical power due to multiple testing, exhibit poor transferability across experiments and fail to exploit the rich behavioral profiles of individual … between clusters. By stabilizing these clusters through machine learning, we ensure data transferability, while dimensionality reduction techniques facilitate detailed analysis of individual animals. We provide
01016|A systematic review of deep learning and super resolution techniques for leaf level and canopy level plant disease detection
   > Scopus. According to the review, low spatial resolution, environmental variability, occlusion, and domain shift cause convolutional and transformer-based models to perform poorly at canopy and … overhead, lack of task-aware training, scarcity of annotated UAV datasets, and poor generalization in real-world scenarios. There are few actual architectural implementations of cross-scale integration
01017|Machine Learning-Based Mapping of Daily Methane Concentration in Rice Paddies Using Meteorological Data and Satellite Images: A Case of South Korea
   > [no term] Methane from rice fields has a strong greenhouse effect and its accurate estimation is essential to combat climate change.In this study, we conducted an analysis based on the Gradient Boosting
01018|Carton dataset synthesis method for loading-and-unloading carton detection based on deep learning
   > [no abstract]
01019|Analyzing meteorological effects on crop yield and yield prediction through machine learning with different data partitioning approaches: A case study
   > 25.10%), driven largely by Year (>50% importance). Without Year, spatial R 2 dropped to 0.2–27%, confirming limited predictive power of meteorological variables alone. Crop climate … 2 across all strategies • Year was key for wheat; excluding it dropped R 2 from 73 ± 7% to 20 ± 48%
01020|Comparison of neural network methods (fuzzy ARTMAP, Kohonen and Perceptron) and maximum likelihood efficiency in preparation of land use map
   > [no abstract]
01021|AI-driven 3D point cloud analysis in plant phenotyping: A Systematic Review
   > and agriculture. However, challenges related to data complexity, limited datasets, and model generalization hinder 3DPC’s widespread adoption. To provide a comprehensive overview and guide future … lack of standardized data collection and formats, (2) insufficient model robustness and generalization, especially from lab to field, (3) high computational demands, and (4) a
01022|DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION OF PIG INTELLIGENT CLASSIFICATION MONITORING SYSTEM BASED ON CONVOLUTION NEURAL NETWORK (CNN)
   > [no term] With the development of agricultural information technology, the intelligent monitoring system applied in pigsty can alert people when domestic pigs and wild boars jump into each other's pigsty, and bring
01023|Reversing behavioural abnormalities in mice exposed to maternal inflammation
   > [no term] Viral infection during pregnancy is correlated with increased frequency of neurodevelopmental disorders, and this is studied in mice prenatally subjected to maternal immune activation (MIA). We previously showed that maternal
01024|Implementation of Deep Learning for Image-Based Potato Leaf Disease Detection
   > of data quickly and accurately, making it possible to analyze images from different regions and different seasons. The proposed deep learning approach in this study … network that is particularly effective for image analysis tasks. The CNN is trained on a dataset of potato tuber images labeled with their corresponding disease
01025|Prediction Model of the Temporal Dynamics of Severe Pest Cashew Anacampsis phytomiella Using Artificial Neural Networks
   > maximum. The model successfully predicted the intensity of A. phytomiella infestation across different years, plant fruiting stages and pest densities. Therefore, the ANN model determined
01026|DeepWheat: predicting the effects of genomic variants on gene expression and regulatory activities across tissues and varieties in wheat using deep le
   > [no term] Spatiotemporal gene expression shapes key agronomic traits, yet tissue-specific prediction remains challenging in complex crops. We present DeepWheat, a broadly applicable deep learning framework comprising DeepEXP and DeepEPI, for accurate,
01027|A CNN-Based Fusion Method for Feature Extraction from Sentinel Data
   > sequences, SAR sequences, DEM - so as to exploit both temporal and cross-sensor dependencies. Based on these data, and a tiny cloud-free fraction of the
01028|Two-dimensional subspace alignment for convolutional activations adaptation
   > [no abstract]
01029|Cross-Domain Association Mining Based Generative Adversarial Network for Pansharpening
   > distortion in the final pansharpened image. In this article, we propose a cross-domain association mining-based generative adversarial network for pansharpening, which consists of a spectral fidelity generator and dual discriminators. In our spectral fidelity generator, the cross-region similarity attention module is designed to establish dependencies between similar substances at … domain, we pre
01030|Analysis of volatile compounds by GCMS reveals their rice cultivars
   > from nine sites in Wuchang were compared to 11 rice cultivar from other regions. Multivariate analysis and unsupervised clustering showed an unambiguous distinction between Wuchang
01031|An optimization based framework for water quality assessment and pollution source apportionment employing GIS and machine learning techniques for smar
   > maps for different water quality parameters. Water samples were collected from 19 different sites to evaluate 20 water quality indicators during the pre-monsoon (PRM) season.
01032|Coupling machine learning with signal process techniques and particle swarm optimization for forecasting flood routing calculations in the Eastern Bla
   > [no abstract]
01033|Machine learning vs. empirical models: Estimating leaf wetness patterns in a wildland landscape for plant disease management
   > [no term] • We compared machine learning and empirical models of leaf wetness duration. • Simple empirical leaf wetness models perform as well as advanced techniques. • Leaf wetness informs wild plant
01034|A Machine Learning Perspective for Predicting Agricultural Droughts
   > the Spatial and temporal characteristics of information’s. The dataset is collected from different regions and also collects the time varying information’s from the dataset. In
01035|De novo domestication: what about the weeds?
   > [no term] Most high-yielding crops are susceptible to abiotic and biotic stresses, making them particularly vulnerable to the potential effects of climate change. A possible alternative is to accelerate the domestication of
01036|Advances in Artificial Intelligence-Enabled Crop Pest and Disease Detection: A Systematic Review
   > system of perception, decision-making and execution. To address the issues of insufficient cross-domain generalization ability and uneven allocation of computing resources in existing models, this paper
01037|AI-enabled predictive pipelines for early warning of agricultural pests, plant diseases, and drought
   > It synthesizes 72 studies on data fusion, lead times, baselines, calibration, and external validation. • It distills operational guidance on multimodal fusion, physics-aware models, MLOps, … studies; probabilistic outputs appeared in 38%, with calibration evidence in 21% and cross-region external tests in 24%. Operational features included versioning/registries (46%), drift detection (29%), schedu
01038|Camera Vision Based Animal Repellent System for Agriculture using Machine Learning
   > [no term] Abstract: The human-animal conflict of crop raiding has significantly increased due to human encroachment on wildlife habitats and deforestation. Wild animals, such as elephants, wild boar, and deer, pose a
01039|Enhancing crop disease recognition via prompt learning-based progressive Mixup and Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training dynamic calibration
   > [no abstract]
01040|Multimodal deep learning improves cross-environment prediction of durum wheat yield components
   > seasons, using two scenarios with direct relevance for breeding: predicting an entirely unseen season (Prediction of Year, PoY) and predicting new sowing environments within the … (0.28–0.32) and clearer gains within PoSY (0.43–0.53). ECs contributed most to improving cross-season transferability, whereas NIRS and phenology added smaller but still useful trait-specific signals. Overall,
01041|A crop model based on dual attention mechanism for large area adaptive yield prediction
   > accuracy by increasing model complexity and coupling different deep learning models, their generalization performance is poor due to significant spatial differences in crop growth environments, making it difficult to explore common features of crop environments in different regions.To address this issue, this paper comprehensively considers crop growth cycles and … module. The time attention modul
01042|A novel lightweight YOLOv8-PSS model for obstacle detection on the path of unmanned agricultural vehicles
   > to Shape-IoU (Shape Intersection over Union), which improves both model accuracy and generalization. Results: The experimental results demonstrate that the improved YOLOv8_PSS model achieves a … the original base network, it reduces the number of parameters by 55.8%, decreases the model size by 59.5%, and lowers computational cost by 51.2%. When
01043|Disease Classification in Eggplant Using Pre-trained VGG16 and MSVM
   > [no term] Abstract Currently, the application of deep learning in crop disease classification is one of the active areas of research for which an image dataset is required. Eggplant (Solanum melongena) is
01044|Improved freezing rain forecast using machine learning
   > is applied in an operational NWP model of China. The problem of domain adaptation is tackled and transfer learning method is employed to adapt the
01045|Machine learning reveals global drivers of dissolved nitrogen dynamics in aquatic ecosystems: Implications for N₂O emissions and regional management
   > found that nitrogen concentrations in Asia and North America were higher than other regions, with DIN concentrations in Asian lakes even ten times those of other regions. Redundancy analysis and feature importance analysis indicated that nitrogen concentrations in
01046|Raman-based machine-learning platform reveals unique metabolic differences between IDHmut and IDHwt glioma
   > [no term] Abstract Background Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue slides are routinely used in cancer diagnosis, clinical decision-making, and stored in biobanks, but their utilization in Raman spectroscopy-based studies has been limited due
01047|High-resolution forest canopy cover estimation in ecodiverse landscape using machine learning and Google Earth Engine: Validity and reliability assess
   > [no abstract]
01048|Assessing the ecotoxicological risk of nicosulfuron on maize using multi-source phenotype data and hyperspectral imaging
   > a remarkable prediction accuracy of 91.38 %. Notably, this model demonstrated robust generalization across different years and planting seasons, with accuracies of 83.33 % and 89.89 %,
01049|Advances in promoter engineering strategies for enhanced recombinant protein expression in plants
   > [no term] Plant-based expression systems, known as molecular farming, have emerged as sustainable and scalable platforms for producing recombinant proteins used in pharmaceuticals, industrial enzymes, and agricultural products. Among the key determinants
01050|Optimization and deep learning methods for the techno-economic analysis of hydrogen generation from solar, wind, and municipal biowaste to partially r
   > [no abstract]
01051|Current status and obstacles of narrowing yield gaps of four major crops
   > is crucially dependent on yield gaps. However, the lack of comparability between different regions in current regional-scale yield gap studies stems from varied methodologies. Moreover,
01052|Cherry Tree Crown Extraction from Natural Orchard Images with Complex Backgrounds
   > with different overlap conditions and image acquisition times, as well as in different years and seasons, show that this method performs well under complex background
01053|Leveraging satellite imagery and yield records to assess in-season maize field functionality with machine learning classification
   > one-vs-rest (OvR) binary classifications using various machine learning algorithms, validated through a leave-one-year-out (LOYO) cross-validation strategy to ensure robust real-world applicability. Combining all 4 feature
01054|Harnessing Deep Learning to Analyze Cryptic Morphological Variability of Marchantia polymorpha
   > [no term] Abstract Characterizing phenotypes is a fundamental aspect of biological sciences, although it can be challenging due to various factors. For instance, the liverwort ( Marchantia polymorpha ), a model system
01055|Detection of Aquatic Invasive Plants in Wetlands of the Upper Mississippi River from UAV Imagery Using Transfer Learning
   > global threat to local biodiversity due to their rapid adaptation to the new environments. Lythrum salicaria, commonly known as purple loosestrife, is a predominant AIP
01056|Deep learning based approach for digitized herbarium specimen segmentation
   > [no abstract]
01057|AGRICULTURAL LAND CHANGE DETECTING AND FORECASTING USING COMBINATION OF FEEDFORWARD MULTILAYER NEURAL NETWORK, CELLULAR AUTOMATA AND MARKOV CHAIN MODE
   > agricultural land of Tehran during past years and simulating these changes for future years. The proposed method utilized the spatial GIS-based techniques and Landsat satellite
01058|Domain Adaptation of Deep Learning Segmentation Model of Small Agricultural Burn Area Detection Using Hi-Resolution Sentinel-2 Observations: A Case St
   > [no term] This study investigates the capabilities of high-resolution Sentinel-2 observations and deep learning (DL) segmentation models, specifically convolutional neural networks (CNNs), for accurate mapping of small and fragmented agricultural burn areas
01059|Machine learning approach to detect Land Use Land Cover (LULC) change in Chure region of Sarlahi district, Nepal
   > shown a significant increase. Conversely, the barren land and water areas have decreased. The classifier obtained an overall accuracy of 85.7% and a kappa coefficient … ecological integrity of the Chure region. The approach can be applied to other regions to monitor and manage LULC changes and support effective conservation efforts.
01060|Rice Yield Estimation Based on Machine Learning Applied to UAV Remote Sensing Data
   > benchmarking of machine learning (ML) models using multi-temporal UAV spectral data with independent temporal validation remains limited. This study systematically evaluated four ML algorithms (Random … compared using 300 random train–test iterations with systematic hyperparameter optimization, followed by independent validation on 2025 data. Among the individual models, XGBoost achieved the highe
01061|Improving Mapping Accuracy of Smallholder Potato Planting Areas by Embedding Prior Knowledge into a Novel Multi-temporal Deep Learning Network
   > [no abstract]
01062|A Computer Vision Model for Accurate Detection of Fresh Jujube Fruits and General Small Targets in Complex Agricultural Environments
   > model, these metrics improve by 0.8%, 3.7%, 2.4%, 2.6%, and 3.1%, respectively. Cross-dataset evaluations further confirm its strong generalizability, demonstrating potential as a practical solution for small-target detection in intelligent horticulture.
01063|Long-term (2013–2022) mapping of winter wheat in the North China Plain using Landsat data: classification with optimal zoning strategy
   > overall accuracy of 91.1% and an average kappa coefficient of 0.810 across different years. The derived winter wheat area also has a good correlation (R2
01064|Hybrid CFD-ANN Scheme for Air Flow and Heat Transfer Across In-Line Flat Tubes Array
   > [no term] Flat tubes are vital components of various technical applications including modern heat exchangers, thermal power plants, and automotive radiators. This paper presents the hybridization of computational fluid dynamic (CFD) and
01065|Modeling the soil-machine response of secondary tillage: A deep learning approach
   > our novel model is able to predict the soil-machine response on previously unseen fields with high accuracy – in our setting with a relative root
01066|Bayesian Joint Adaptation Network for Crop Mapping in the Absence of Mapping Year Ground-Truth Samples
   > series (SITS), enabling frequent and extensive monitoring of croplands. However, a classifier trained on a specific year(s) with crop type labels (i.e., source domain) can exhibit reduced effectiveness when directly applied to a different year(s) without reference data (i.e., target domain) due to the interannual variation in image signals and crop growth dynamics. To address this issue, we propos
01067|Precision agricultural techniques for coconut disease segmentation using enhanced remote sensing images
   > [no abstract]
01068|Crop sample prediction and early mapping based on historical data: Exploration of an explainable FKAN framework
   > [no abstract]
01069|Prediction of a plant intracellular metabolite content class using image-based deep learning
   > and high metabolite classes, respectively. We further validated the fruit model using independently collected fruit images from different locations spanning nearly 130,000 sq km, with 70% accuracy. We developed a
01070|Automated seed counting using image processing and deep learning
   > [no term] Introduction: Accurate seed counting is an essential task in agricultural research and farming, supporting activities such as crop breeding, yield prediction, and weed management. Traditional manual seed counting, while accurate,
01071|RMNet: An RNA m6A Cross-species Methylation Detection Method for Nanopore Sequencing
   > time-consuming, labor-intensive, or require control samples, while machine learning models often lack cross-species applicability. This study aims to develop RMNet, a robust cross-species m6A detection method using nanopore sequencing. METHODS RMNet employs Conformer and RNN … enhances differentiation between m6A and non-m6A sites. The model was trained and tested on datasets from synthesized RNA,
01072|Hecaton: reliably detecting copy number variation in plant genomes using short read sequencing data
   > [no term] BACKGROUND: Copy number variation (CNV) is thought to actively contribute to adaptive evolution of plant species. While many computational algorithms are available to detect copy number variation from whole genome
01073|Forecasting and Coupled Coordination Analysis of Supply and Demand for Sustainable Talent in Chinese Agriculture
   > and demand coupling coordination level is low; we found significant differences among different regions and provinces, characterized by decreasing order of the northeast, central, west, and east. According to the socio-economic
01074|Enhancing Crop Yield Prediction and Management in eFarming Systems through Machine Learning
   > [no abstract]
01075|Determination of the effect of GA 3 applications on plant development, nutrient content change and analysis of root architectural features using ML ar
   > (GA 3 ) on the plant development, root and bulb nutrient content in the wild species Tulipa saxatilis. Spray treatments of GA 3 at 0,
01076|Machine learning-based estimation of power output in solar photovoltaic systems under real-world conditions
   > (PV) systems under real conditions is essential for improving efficiency and detecting degradation. This paper presents a machine learning framework to forecast PV power using … (XGBoost), Support Vector Regression (SVR), and Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) - were trained on 13,923 samples from a 455.4 kWp solar PV plant in central
01077|f 4 -statistics-based ancestry profiling and convolutional neural network phenotyping shed new light on the structure of genetic and spike shape diver
   > Spike shape variation patterns were analyzed using a convolutional neural network-based approach, trained on green and dry spike image datasets. This analysis showed that spike
01078|A comprehensive review on AI-based crop disease detection using leaf image classification and explainable AI
   > DL models achieve > 95% accuracy on controlled datasets like PlantVillage, performance degrades significantly under field conditions due to dataset bias, domain shifts, and multi-disease complexity. Critical research gaps are identified, including insufficient annotation standards, limited cross-domain validation, and computational constraints for edge deployment. Emerging directions include agric
01079|Projecting future changes in potato yield using machine learning techniques: a case study for Prince Edward Island, Canada
   > including data collection, model selection, and scenario-based projections, can be applied to other regions and crops. Our projections for PEI toward the end of the
01080|Transfer learning in environmental remote sensing
   > [no abstract]
01081|A General Algorithm of Leaf Chlorophyll Content Estimation for a Wide Range of Plant Species
   > regression algorithm was then used to estimate LCC in other datasets from different regions across the globe. Comparing with the machine learning techniques and PROSPECT
01082|Breaking the limitations of scenes and sensors variability: A novel unsupervised domain adaptive instance segmentation framework for agricultural fiel
   > Nevertheless, advanced deep learning models face two major limitations: limited ability to generalize across different spatial，temporal and sensor contexts with varying scene and object characteristics, … training and validation. To address this challenge, we introduce a novel unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) framework (UDA-Field Teacher, UDA-FT) for agricultural field parcel instance segmenta
01083|Integrating Machine Learning Models for Linear and Exponential Regression to Predict Wheat Area, Productivity and Population
   > [no term] IntroductionsT he complementary statistics issued by the food and agriculture organization (FAO) based on food insecurity experience scale (FIES) revealed that about 10% of the world's population is suffering from
01084|Two neurosubtypes of ADHD different from the clinical phenotypes
   > profiles of 183 children with ADHD and 396 neurotypical controls from 7 independent sites. We also used an external validation set with 750 subjects. We adopted a semi-supervised clustering method to … fractional amplitude of low frequency fluctuation (fALFF). In addition, split sample test, leave-one-site-out test and external validation were applied to evaluate the reproducibility and stability 
01085|Geese jellyfish search optimization trained deep learning for multiclass plant disease detection using leaf images
   > [no term] Accurate and early detection of plant disease is significant for stable and proper agriculture and also for preventing the unwanted waste of financial and other possessions. Hence, a new technique
01086|Systematic Literature Review on CNN and YOLO Algorithms for Detecting Plant Diseases in Precision Agriculture
   > studies, especially with controlled datasets. However, challenges remain in their application in real-world conditions, such as environmental diversity, overlapping symptoms, and poorly annotated data. Future
01087|PlantCLR: contrastive self-supervised pretraining for generalizable plant disease detection
   > methods. Self-supervised learning (SSL) further reduces dependence on manual labels, but its transferability across heterogeneous agricultural datasets remains insufficiently characterized. Here, we evaluate a contrastive SSL pretraining and fine-tuning pipeline, termed PlantCLR, for plant disease classification under cross-dataset transfer with target-domain fine-tuning. PlantCLR combines SimCLR-
01088|Machine learning based wild animal intrusion detection system in field
   > [no term] In the global, monetary boom of many nations especially relies upon on crop cultivation. Agriculture offers the meals for humans and produces numerous uncooked substances for industries. In woodland quarter
01089|DMRU: generative deep learning to unravel condition-specific cytosine methylation in plants
   > Leveraging which DMRU could perform with same level of accuracy in a cross-species universal manner. In a comprehensive testing and benchmarking study across a huge
01090|Fruit-In-Sight: A deep learning-based framework for secondary metabolite class prediction using fruit and leaf images
   > fruits and leaves ( n = 1045 ) from neem trees grown in the wild across 0.6 million sq km, imaged those, measured concentration of
01091|Development and validation of various phenotyping algorithms for Diabetes Mellitus using data from electronic health records
   > [no abstract]
01092|Disentangling the relative impacts of precipitation metrics on global crop yields
   > [no abstract]
01093|WTAD-YOLO: A lightweight tomato leaf disease detection model based on YOLO11
   > 10.0%. Meanwhile, GFLOPs remain unchanged. Furthermore, the model exhibits the least performance degradation in Domain Shift experiments. The proposed model outperforms common YOLO series models in detection
01094|Combining Directed Evolution with Machine Learning Enables Accurate Genotype-to-Phenotype Predictions
   > [no term] Abstract Linking sequence variation to phenotypic effects is critical for efficient exploitation of large genomic datasets. Here we present a novel approach combining directed evolution with protein language modeling to
01095|Detection of fungal disease in citrus fruit based on hyperspectral imaging
   > Phytophthora citricola , Phytophthora syringae ). By studying the spectral features of different regions affected by citrus diseases, the competitive adaptive resampling algorithm (CARS) was
01096|An Integrated Lightweight Neural Network Design and FPGA-Accelerated Edge Computing for Chili Pepper Variety and Origin Identification via an E-Nose
   > chili peppers and two specific varieties of chili peppers originating from seven different regions. Model training is conducted via the proposed lightweight convolutional neural network
01097|Using k-mer Embeddings Learned from a Skip-Gram Based Neural Network as Effective Feature Representation for Building a Cross-Species Prediction Model
   > [no term]  Identification of DNA N6-methyladenine sites has been a very active topic of computational biology due to the unavailability of suitable methods to identify them accurately, especially in plants. Substantial
01098|Machine learning system for commercial banana harvesting
   > architectures to find the best solution. 2,685 samples were collected from four different sites with expert opinions from industry harvesters to cut (or harvest) and
01099|AI-Driven Meteorology for Weather Detection, Classification, Nowcasting and Forecasting (1991–2025): A Comprehensive Review of Deep Learning and Machi
   > [no abstract]
01100|Extraction of farmland shelterbelts from remote sensing imagery based on a belt-oriented method
   > positive role in ensuring food security and ecological safety. The absence or degradation of shelterbelt structures can lead to fragmentation of the remotely extracted results. … a correct identification rate of 94.9% within the training areas. Among the different regions, the highest identification accuracy recorded was 98.4% and the lowest was
01101|Beyond QTL and GWAS: how deep learning, graph models, and multi-omics are reshaping plant genomic prediction analysis
   > higher-order interactions. This paper further explores developments in multi-task learning, cross-population and cross-species transfer, and emerging foundation-style models. Key issues related to interpretability, reproducibility, data
01102|Mutation mapping of a variegated EMS tomato reveals an FtsH-like protein precursor potentially causing patches of four phenotype classes in the leaves
   > phenotype. Cross-sections displayed distinct anatomy of four-leaf phenotypes, suggesting a stepwise mesophyll degradation. DG sectors showed large spongy layers, MG presented intercellular spaces in palisade … physiology, and image analysis of four classes of cell layers and chloroplast degradation in a tomato plant with a variegated phenotype. The genomics and bioinformatics
01103|Projection of future drought impacts on millet yield in northern Shanxi of China using ensemble machine learning approach
   > [no abstract]
01104|ELFpm: A machine learning framework for industrial machines prediction of remaining useful life
   > [no abstract]
01105|A Hybrid Model that Combines Machine Learning and Mechanistic Models for Useful Grass Growth Prediction
   > not the same as the training data, violating the so-called identical and independently distributed (i.i.d.) assumption). In this paper, we consider a specific case of … types of model have respective strengths. The mechanical model can often handle out-of-distribution events better than ML model, but the ML model can often handle
01106|QTransLeafNet: A Quantum-Enhanced and Explainable Deep Learning Framework for Segmentation and Classification of Apple Leaf Diseases
   > [no abstract]
01107|Fractional stock exchange trading optimization trained deep learning for wild animal detection with WMSN data communication in IoT environment
   > [no abstract]
01108|Towards Global Crop Maps with Transfer Learning
   > can be used to exploit available annotations and enable crop mapping for other regions, crop types and years of inspection. In this work, we have
01109|STANet-TLA: leveraging deep learning and prior knowledge for large-scale soybean breeding plot segmentation and high-yielding variety screening from U
   > [no abstract]
01110|The First Study of White Rust Disease Recognition by Using Deep Neural Networks and Raspberry Pi Module Application in Chrysanthemum
   > dataset of non-diseased and white rust leaves include: (1) data collection; (2) data partitioning; (3) feature extraction; (4) feature engineering; and (5) prediction modeling based
01111|A Mobile Application for Detecting and Monitoring the Development Stages of Wild Flowers and Plants
   > [no term] Wild flowers and plants appear spontaneously. They form the ecological basis on which life depends. They play a fundamental role in the regeneration of natural life and the balance of
01112|A SAR-Driven Approach for Winter Catch Crop Classification in Germany
   > a two level hierarchical Random Forest (RF) classification framework and evaluate its spatio-temporal transferability. In level-1, the model distinguished between catch crops and non-catch crops … crop types using 22 defined crop specific descriptive features. The RF model, trained on 2021 data from Lower Saxony (LS), achieved overall accuracies of 94.9% in level-1 and 85.7% in level-2. The model 
01113|Synergistic use of multi-sensor satellite data for mapping crop types and land cover dynamics from 2021 to 2023 in Northeast Thailand
   > crop type/LC transitions from 2021 to 2023 were then analysed and a temporal transfer model was employed to map historical crop fields. The combined all … 7,287 km 2 (∼5%) appeared from 2021 to 2022, with major crop decreases in rice and sugarcane. From 2022 to 2023, cropland changes totaled 8,466
01114|Detection and characterization of spike architecture based on deep learning and X-ray computed tomography in barley
   > [no term] BACKGROUND: Spike is the grain-bearing organ in cereal crops, which is a key proxy indicator determining the grain yield and quality. Machine learning methods for image analysis of spike-related phenotypic
01115|Discrimination of Waxy Wheats Using Near-Infrared Hyperspectral Spectroscopy
   > [no abstract]
01116|A Lightweight Plant Disease Detection Model for Long-Tailed Agricultural Scenarios
   > percentage points, respectively, while reducing parameters by 51.93% and weights by 46.15%. Cross-dataset tests prove the good generalization performance of the proposed method. This study indicates that, under lightweight constraints,
01117|Machine Learning for Relative Compressive Strength of Concrete Incorporating Agricultural Bio-Supplementary Cementitious Materials
   > learning studies focused on single SCM types and absolute strength prediction, limiting transferability across heterogeneous SCM datasets. This study develops an interpretable machine learning framework
01118|Ultra-short echo-time magnetic resonance imaging lung segmentation with under-Annotations and domain shift
   > [no term] Ultra-short echo-time (UTE) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides enhanced visualization of pulmonary structural and functional abnormalities and has shown promise in phenotyping lung disease. Here, we describe the development and
01119|Prediction Model of Greenhouse Tomato Yield Using Data Based on Different Soil Fertility Conditions
   > on experimental data for water and fertilizer consumption by greenhouse tomatoes in different regions over many years, this paper investigated the prediction models of greenhouse … the MSE of the other three prediction models under high soil fertility decreased to 0.0082, 0.0041, and 0.0036; MAE decreased to 0.0759, 0.0511, and 0.0489; R2 decreased to 0.8641, 0.9323, and 0.9408. These results indi
01120|Automated weed segmentation with knowledge based labeling for machine learning applications
   > eCognition (v9.5) for Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) RGB imagery. The workflow was tested on a ~ 2000 m² research field at the University of Saskatchewan … manual effort while maintaining accuracy. Future work will focus on improving its transferability across fields, dates, and experimental conditions.
01121|AI-Driven Integration of Multi-Omics Data for Gene Function Discovery and Prediction of Complex Crop Phenotypes
   > and tomato. We critically assess challenges related to data quality, batch effects, domain shift, metadata standardization, model interpretability, and reproducibility, and outline future directions encompassing
01122|A Comprehensive Review for Agricultural Product Prices Forecasting: Architectural Diversity and Open Challenges
   > important to understand how price dynamics respond to policy actions, improve model transferability across regions and commodities and provide well‐calibrated forecasts with interpretable uncertainty estimates
01123|Deep learning powered real-time identification of insects using citizen science data
   > develop and implement integrated pest management strategies. Automated identification of insects under real-world conditions presents several challenges, including differentiating similar-looking species, intra-species dissimilarity and inter-species
01124|SENTINEL-1&2 FOR NEAR REAL TIME CROPPING PATTERN MONITORING IN DROUGHT PRONE AREAS. APPLICATION TO IRRIGATION WATER NEEDS IN TELANGANA, SOUTH-INDIA
   > 2016, accounting for 3.5 and 5% with moderate classification confusion. This confusion decreases with the increase of irrigated crops areas during Rabi 2017. For this … observations). From this abundance situation, the surface water detected for each season decreased regularly to less than 0.3% together with the rice and irrigated area
01125|Cross-domain learning for pulmonary nodule detection using Gestalt principle of similarity
   > [no abstract]
01126|Deep learning-based kiwifruit flower recognition method to facilitate automated pollination
   > Recognition Network (KiwiRecNet), a lightweight yet high-performance framework tailored to kiwifruit blossoms in the wild. KiwiRecNet first employs the Kiwifruit Generative Adversarial Network for Low-light … fraction of their cost. Consistent gains across multiple flower datasets confirm its generalisation ability. These results demonstrate an effective route to high-accuracy, real-time flowering
01127|A method for mining combined data from in-hive sensors, weather and apiary inspections to forecast the health status of honey bee colonies
   > [no term] Abstract Bees are the main pollinators of most insect-pollinated wild plant species and are essential for the maintenance of plant ecosystems and food production. However, over the past three decades
01128|Comparative Analysis of Machine Learning Models and Explainable Ai for Agriculture Drought Prediction: A Case Study of the Ta-Pieh Mountains
   > [no abstract]
01129|Detecting and monitoring the development stages of wild flowers and plants using computer vision: approaches, challenges and opportunities
   > [no term] Wild flowers and plants play an important role in protecting biodiversity and providing various ecosystem services. However, some of them are endangered or threatened and are entitled to preservation and
01130|Investigating major sources of air pollution and improving spatiotemporal forecast accuracy using supervised machine learning and a proxy
   > daily average air concentration of NO2 and SO2 were predicted at five different locations using supervised machine learning methods, including random forests and support vector
01131|Crop yield–soil quality trade-offs under no-tillage and deep tillage in the black soil region of Northeast China
   > [no abstract]
01132|From model to field: predictive design of microbial communities for resilient crop performance
   > of root endophytic bacteria and rhizosphere metabolites. An Elastic Net regression model trained on plant biomass data accurately predicted the performance of unseen SynComs, with prediction accuracy plateauing at ∼5% (301/6144) of all possible SynCom–temperature … the predictive design of beneficial microbiomes to improve resilient crop performance under real-world conditions.
01133|Advancing Corn Yield Mapping in Kenya Through Transfer Learning
   > numerous training samples that are scarce in regions with underdeveloped infrastructure. Furthermore, domain shifts between different spatial regions prevent DL models trained in one region from being directly applied to another without domain adaptation. This effect is particularly pronounced between regions with significant climate and … which learns general associations between predictors and r
01134|NEURAL NETWORK FORECASTING OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF DAIRY FARMING IN THE VOLGOGRAD REGION
   > Volgograd region imports almost 25% of dairy raw materials from other regions, as the capacity of dairy farms of agricultural enterprises and private
01135|Investigation of the suitability of existing Maize Plant Leaf Disease detection and classification approaches: Challenges and Open Issues
   > Maize, a crucial staple crop in Zambia and many other regions, is seriously threatened by several leaf diseases, such as Gray Leaf … existing models is limited in real-world scenarios because they frequently fail to generalize across various environmental circumstances, such as variances in climate, illumination, and soil
01136|UAV-Based Classification of Cercospora Leaf Spot Using RGB Images
   > used it to evaluate our approach under realistic conditions and analyzed its generalization capabilities to unseen environments. The obtained results correlated to visual estimation by human experts significantly.
01137|Improving Common Bacterial Blight Phenotyping by Using Rub Inoculation and Machine Learning: Cheaper, Better, Faster, Stronger
   > [no term] Accurate assessment of plant symptoms plays a key role for measuring the impact of pathogens during plant-pathogen interaction. Common bacterial blight caused by Xanthomonas phaseoli pv. phaseoli and Xanthomonas citri
01138|Integrating phenology knowledge graph into parcel-scale crop classification using multi-period deep time series modelling
   > proposed framework can automatically generate crop knowledge graphs based on samples from different regions, overcoming the modal barriers between the knowledge space and the remote
01139|Hydro-power generation forecast in South Africa based on Machine Learning (ML) models
   > South Africa. The data included how the South African Weather Service categorized different years from 2001 to 2019 in the southern hemisphere based on climatological
01140|On the prediction of non-CG DNA methylation using machine learning
   > levels of neighboring cytosines. In this framework, we also study (1) the cross-species prediction problem, i.e., the classification performance when training on one species and testing on another species, and the (2) the cross-context prediction problem, i.e., the classification performance when training on one context and testing on another context (within the same species). Finally, we show tha
01141|CY-Bench: A comprehensive benchmark dataset for sub-national crop yield forecasting
   > system science and machine learning communities, facilitating research on time series forecasting, domain adaptation, and online learning. The dataset (https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.11502142, Kallenberg et al., 2025) and
01142|Ensemble machine learning for digital mapping of soil pH and electrical conductivity in the Andean agroecosystem of Peru
   > weights to models based on their predictive accuracy, measured by R² from spatial cross-validation. Spatial patterns are noticeable, and pH displays greater spatial clustering than
01143|Machine-Learning Crop-Type Mapping Sensitivity to Feature Selection and Hyperparameter Tuning
   > than considering S1 or S2 alone. Finally, crop-type maps are derived across different regions and time periods to highlight the benefits of the proposed method
01144|Symptom-based early detection and classification of plant diseases using AI-driven CNN+KNN Fusion Software (ACKFS)
   > Mango Leaf-BD and 87.52% on Leaf Repository, surpassing MobileNet R-CNN (70.53%). • Cross-Dataset Generalizability: Performs robustly across diverse datasets, adapting to different disease complexities in mango … on Leaf Repository datasets, outperforming prior benchmarks (e.g., MobileNet R-CNN: 70.53%). • Cross-Dataset Generalizability: • Maintains robust performance across diverse datasets (mang
01145|Optimizing Water Purification: Adsorbent Performance of Phumdi Biomass Activated Carbon for Fe(II) Removal Using Artificial Neural Network
   > [no abstract]
01146|Estimating the chromium concentration of farmland soils in an arid zone from hyperspectral reflectance by using partial least squares regression metho
   > makes guaranteeing the concentration estimation precision for a designated heavy metal in different regions considerably challenging. We here propose an optimal hyperspectral model for determining
01147|Machine learning-based Direct Normal Irradiance (DNI) forecasting using satellite data for Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) plants with Thermal Energy S
   > we propose a cost-effective forecasting framework using Exponential Gaussian Process Regression (Exp-GPR) trained on geostationary Himawari-8 satellite data. To capture temporal dependencies, 17 meteorological and … the Solar Zenith Angle and cloud properties as the primary predictive drivers. Cross-site evaluation across diverse South Asian regions confirms the model’s transferability, although p
01148|A Comparative Machine Learning Framework for Location-Specific Maize Yield Prediction in the U.S. Corn Belt Using SVM, Random Forest, and Decision Tre
   > (DT) models using a dataset of 1,640 plot-level observations in four geographically different sites and adjusting them to consider spatial autocorrelation so that the models
01149|Optimizing data collection requirements for machine learning models in wild blueberry automation through the application of DALL-E 2
   > with AI-generated variations using DALL-E 2 to expand the dataset. Models were trained on three datasets: ground truth, generated, and a combination (40% generated images). … truth. This indicated that while AI-generated images can augment datasets and improve generalization, they cannot fully replace ground truth data while maintaining model performance. Integrating
01150|Revealing floristic variation and map uncertainties for different plant groups in western Amazonia
   > relationships. Broad‐scale variation in floristic composition and the degree of uniqueness of different regions remains poorly mapped and understood in several areas across the globe. … quantify how reliable our predictions were, we made an assessment of model transferability and spatial applicability. We also compared our floristic composition map to the
01151|TasselLFANetV2: Exploring Vision Models Adaptation in Cross-Domain
   > real world. In this letter, we explore the possibility of achieving high-quality domain adaptation (DA) without explicit adaptation. As a baseline, we implemented the significantly … 0.981 and ${R} {^{{2}}}$ of 0.9684, demonstrates leading performance in two typical cross-domain settings of data distribution scenarios, agriculture, and remote sensing (RS), exhibiting strong domain adaptation and g
01152|Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) Imagery for Plant Communities: Optimizing Visible Light Vegetation Index to Extract Multi-Species Coverage
   > (SVM), we established dynamic thresholds applicable to crops, trees, and shrubs, achieving cross-species compatibility without multispectral data. The results showed that all VIs achieved robust
01153|A scalable machine learning approach for predicting wheat growth stages with a large national dataset
   > crop management features. Three experiments were designed to evaluate models: 70:30 split, leave-one-year-out (LOYO) and leave-one-site-out (LOSO). The optimal spatial extent was determined by comparing national, regional and … validation of a model that is both accurate and scales well to unseen years and sites. This study therefore highlights the potential for a ML-based
01154|Modeling climate-resilient crop suitability in central India using machine learning and species distribution approaches
   > [no abstract]
01155|Advancements in Spatio-temporal agricultural drought monitoring and modeling: a comprehensive review on multi-source remote sensing and machine learni
   > [no abstract]
01156|Comparison of wild and domesticated hot peppers fruit: volatile emissions, pungency and protein profiles
   > [no term] Capsicum plant species are globally cultivated in warm and temperate regions, being important for agro-economic, biological and cultural aspects. While their worldwide spread and their ability of cross-pollination to easily
01157|Evolutionary forecast of vineyard yield in a mediterranean climate: A multi-temporal machine learning approach in Cádiz, Spain
   > post-harvest (December), post-dormancy (March), and post-flowering (June). The methodology employs a rigorous Leave-One-Year-Out (LOYO) cross-validation approach to assess model performance in the context of short … prediction accuracy throughout the growing season: the Mean Absolute Percentage Error (MAPE) decreases from 13.9% in the early December forecast, to 13.8% in March, reaching
01158|Integrating multi-source remote sensing and machine learning for root-zone soil moisture and yield prediction of winter oilseed rape (Brassica napus L
   > yield. In addition, through the comparison and verification of this method in other regions, it shows that the results also have certain reference value. The
01159|Unraveling the impact of environmental factors on wheat yield across the European Union via explainable machine learning
   > [no abstract]
01160|Improving spatial and temporal variation of ammonia emissions for the Netherlands using livestock housing information and a Sentinel-2-derived crop ma
   > of ammonia emissions. It can be worthwhile to extrapolate the method to other regions in Europe and elsewhere.
01161|AI-based Identification of Plant Photographs from Herbarium Specimens
   > simply by mixing digitized specimens and photos and those based on advanced domain adaptation techniques with the objective of learning a joint representation space between … simply by mixing digitized specimens and photos and those based on advanced domain adaptation techniques with the objective of learning a joint representation space between field and herbarium representations. The domain adap
01162|In-Season Corn Yield Prediction Using Satellite-Derived Solar-Induced Chlorophyll Fluorescence and Machine Learning Algorithms
   > train a feedforward neural network (NN), with performance evaluated under a nested leave-one-year-out cross-validation scheme simulating real-world forecasting. A key contribution of this study is
01163|ChinaCropSM1km: a fine 1km daily Soil Moisture dataset for Crop drylands across China during 1993–2018
   > based on numerous in situ daily observations of soil moisture. We used independently in situ observations (181327 samples) from the Agricultural Meteorological Stations (AMS) across … of global soil moisture products (e.g. r increased by 116 %, ubRMSE decreased by 64 %), including the global remote-sensing-based surface soil moisture dataset (RSSSM)
01164|MAIZE YIELD ESTIMATION IN KENYA USING MODIS
   > [no term] Abstract. Monitoring staple crop production can support agricultural research, business such as crop insurance, and government policy. Obtaining accurate estimates through field work is very expensive, and estimating it through
01165|Quantum Kernel-Driven Hybrid Neural Network for Brain Tumor Classification
   > of $0.986~\pm ~0.11$ , and weighted F1-score of $0.989~\pm ~0.12$ , while cross-dataset evaluation on independent IEEE DataPort MRI datasets demonstrates robust generalization under dataset shift. All experiments are conducted on publicly available retrospective datasets using a
01166|Enhancing rice phenology identification by synergistic learning canopy optical signals and plant height dynamics
   > over conventional full-spectrum deep learning approaches. Notably, the framework exhibited exceptional temporal generalizability with cross-year validation accuracy reaching 0.977. Moreover, by accurately tracking the phenological stages of
01167|Rainfall Forecasting in India Using Combined Machine Learning Approach and Soft Computing Techniques : A HYBRID MODEL
   > analysis employs geo-statistical techniques, specifically Kriging, to visualize spatial-temporal rainfall variability across different regions in India. The findings emphasize the potential of modern computational methods
01168|Unraveling the climate induced drought impacts on crop pattern distribution using explainable machine learning algorithms
   > [no abstract]
01169|Domain Adaptation based Fault Diagnosis under Variable Operating Conditions of a Rock Drill
   > [no term] Data-driven fault diagnosis is an essential technology for the safety and maintenance of rock drills. However, since the signals acquired from a rock drill have different distributions, which arise due
01170|Self-attention and frequency-augmentation for unsupervised domain adaptation in satellite image-based time series classification
   > despite similar or even identical label sets. The research field of unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) focuses on methods to overcome these challenges by providing algorithms that explicitly learn domain shifts between different data domains in the absence of target-labeled data. Building … evaluate the default and adjusted model variants, we designed several closed-label set, cross-regional and
01171|A Novel Approach to Rainfall Prediction: Implementing Recurrent Neural Networks in Meteorological Forecasting
   > detecting sudden changes in precipitation patterns. The study further explores the model’s generalization across different locations and seasons, showing RNNs' effectiveness in modeling complex meteorological relationships and
01172|"A novel hybrid deep learning framework for enhanced segmentation of rice leaf diseases using attention-driven efficientnet models"
   > of diseased rice leaves for segmentation accuracy, computational efficiency, and robustness in real-world conditions. Results show that the U-Net with EfficientNetB7 and attention gates outperforms the other models, particularly for complex leaf images, achieving superior accuracy and generalization. This research provides a practical, real-time solution for early disease detection in
01173|Classification Models for Plant Diseases Diagnosis: A Review
   > [no term] Plants are important source of our life. Crop production in a good figure and good quality is important to us. The diagnosis of a disease in a plant can be
01174|An intelligent decision-making framework for optimizing canola irrigation-nitrogen application schedule by DSSAT model and machine learning
   > [no abstract]
01175|DETERMINATION OF RICE SEED VIGOR BY LOW-FIELD NUCLEAR MAGNETIC RESONANCE COUPLED WITH MACHINE LEARNING
   > (LF-NMR) spectral data of rice seed samples from three varieties harvested in different years were collected through a combination of the standard germination test and
01176|Aspects of assessment of ecological impact of an ash-sludge collector of pavlodar aluminum plant (Kazakhstan)
   > samples of data obtained by means of partitioning of samples taken from different locations of the lake. Much higher concentration in every location is observed
01177|Paddy Rice Mapping in Hainan Island Using Time-Series Sentinel-1 SAR Data and Deep Learning
   > features, leading to more precise paddy rice mapping. To assess the model’s generalizability, the RiceTS model was applied to map paddy rice distributions for the years 2020 and 2023. The results demonstrate strong spatial and temporal transferability, confirming the model’s adaptability across varying environmental conditions. Additionally, the extracted
01178|Dominant Species-Physiognomy-Ecological (DSPE) System for the Classification of Plant Ecological Communities from Remote Sensing Images
   > communities from satellite images at a regional scale, indicating its applications in other regions in the world.
01179|Integration of machine learning models with real-time global positioning data to automate the wild blueberry harvester
   > [no abstract]
01180|Domain adaptation through active learning strategies for anomaly classification in wastewater treatment plants
   > limited data. Utilizing active learning, the method iteratively selects samples from the target domain to fine-tune a gradient-boosting model initially trained on data from 17 plants. Three sampling strategies were tested, with low
01181|Risk of successive hot-pluvial extremes on crop yield loss over global breadbasket regions
   > of SHPEs globally for the studied crops, although it exhibits heterogeneities across different regions. The insights provide a foundation for considering the actual risk, which
01182|A General Model for Large-Scale Paddy Rice Mapping by Combining Biological Characteristics, Deep Learning, and Multisource Remote Sensing Data
   > which can be directly applied for generating 10-m paddy rice maps in other regions with different climate conditions and complex cropping systems (e.g., Jiangxi Province
01183|Fusing multi-scale context-aware information representation for automatic in-field pest detection and recognition
   > [no term] Abstract Automatic in-field pest detection and recognition using mobile vision technique is a hot topic in modern intelligent agriculture, but suffers from serious challenges including complexity of wild environment, detection
01184|Automated rice mapping under diverse cropping patterns and establishment methods by integrating phenological knowledge and synergy of optical and SAR 
   > [no abstract]
01185|Phenomic versus genomic prediction—A comparison of prediction accuracies for grain yield in hard winter wheat lines
   > r̄ ≤ 0.48) than GEBVs produced by gBLUP (r̄ = 0.35). In leave-one-year-out forward validation using only multispectral data for 2020 and 2021, PPEs from
01186|Soybean Yield Estimation Using Improved Deep Learning Models With Integrated Multisource and Multitemporal Remote Sensing Data
   > environmental variables). Empirical analyses showed that TransBiHGRU-PSO demonstrated improved estimation capability and generalizability compared to multiple benchmark models. Notably, with anomalous yield data retained, the … machine learning model (support vector regression), R2 increased by 52.96% and RMSE decreased by 26.05%, and relative to the best deep learning baseline model (long
01187|Transposable element-driven evolution of herbicide resistance in plants
   > [no term] Herbicide resistance (HR) threatens global agriculture and food security with its increasing prevalence. HR evolves via two primary mechanisms: target site resistance (TSR), involving genetic mutations or duplications, and non-target-site
01188|Adaptive Particle Swarm Optimization Radial Basis Neural Network (APSO–RBF)-Based Method for Classifying Soils by Laser-Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy
   > [no abstract]
01189|A lightweight and generalizable deep learning framework for early detection of rice leaf diseases in complex field environments
   > variable lighting, occlusions, complex backgrounds), computational constraints on edge devices, and limited generalizability across diverse disease types and plant species. To address these challenges, this … (60.85%), while maintaining low computational demands (6.3 GFLOPs, 2.66M parameters). Significantly, rigorous generalization experiments validate the model's exceptional transferability. Eval
01190|Machine learning approach for classification of Dalium guineense fruits
   > [no term] Having a mixture of similar items that needs to be separated for processing or for storage is a common challenge. Dalium guineense (DG) is a wild fruit with epicarp that
01191|Comparative Transcriptome Analysis of Bovine, Porcine, and Sheep Muscle Using Interpretable Machine Learning Models
   > still needs to be improved. This study addresses this gap through extensive cross-species muscle transcriptome analysis, combined with interpretable machine learning models. Utilizing a comprehensive
01192|BERNN: A Transformer-BiLSTM Hybrid Model for Cross-Domain Short Text Classification in Agricultural Expert Systems
   > AgQsBERT and symmetric contextual modeling from BiLSTM significantly enhances the expressiveness and generalizability of the model. Evaluated on a self-constructed agricultural question dataset with 110,647 … BERNN achieved a classification accuracy of 97.19%, surpassing the baseline by 3.2%. Cross-domain validation on the Tsinghua News dataset further demonstrates its robust generalization capabi
01193|High-speed large-scale 4D activities mapping of moving C. elegans by deep-learning-enabled light-field microscopy on a chip
   > [no term] We report a novel fusion of microfluidics and light-field microscopy, to achieve high-speed 4D (space + time) imaging of moving C. elegans on a chip. Our approach combines automatic chip-based
01194|Experimental support for genomic prediction of climate maladaptation using the machine learning approach Gradient Forests
   > genetic offset) of populations when transplanted from their “home” environment to the new environments in the common gardens. We then compared the predicted genetic offsets
01195|From Simulation to Field Validation: A Digital Twin-Driven Sim2real Transfer Approach for Strawberry Fruit Detection and Sizing
   > lack visual realism, leading many studies to mix real images or adopt domain adaptation methods to address the reality gap. In contrast, this work relies … training exclusively on images captured in the virtual environment, the model was tested on a commercial-scale strawberry farm using a physical ground vehicle. Two separate
01196|OcuMDNet: A lightweight CNN for robust multi-disease retinal diagnosis with cross-dataset reliability
   > the classification of multiple retinal diseases using fundus images and to evaluate cross-dataset generalization under strict label alignment. We introduce OcuMDNet (Ocular Multi-Disease Net), a compact … each dataset (DR: EyePACS, Messidor; Glaucoma: ORIGA; AMD: AREDS); and (iii) evaluates cross-dataset transfer for DR (training on EyePACS and testing on Messidor). Patient-level splits
01197|Analysing the spatiotemporal variation and influencing factors of Lake Chaohu's CDOM over the past 40 years using machine learning
   > regional and hydrological characteristics. The results show that the water quality in different regions were significantly different, and TN may be the key factor driving
01198|Long history paddy rice mapping across Northeast China with deep learning and annualresult enhancement method
   > 1985 to 2023 (available at https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.27604839.v1, Zhang et al., 2024). First, a cross-sensor paddy training dataset comprising 155 Landsat images was created to map the … to diminish the impact of the limited training sample in large-scale and across-sensor paddy rice mapping. ARE integrates differences in category probability and confidence levels
01199|Contribution of model organism phenotypes to the computational identification of human disease genes
   > lack of human data and increase genome coverage. In the past decade, cross-species phenotype comparisons have proven valuble, and several ontologies have been developed for
01200|Deep learning for horticultural innovation: YOLOv12s revolutionizes micropropagated lingonberry phenotyping through unified phenomic-genomic-epigenomi
   > A custom multi-class annotated dataset was developed to evaluate model performance under real-world conditions. The YOLOv12 model, built on a RELAN backbone with flash-attention mechanisms,
01201|Gene regulatory network inference in soybean upon infection by Phytophthora sojae
   > analysis to train similar models. These Arabidopsis data-based models were used for cross-species TF binding site prediction on soybean. Finally, we created a gene regulatory
01202|Wheat lodging extraction using Improved_Unet network
   > and the robustness of the improved network was verified with data from different years in two different geographical locations. The results of analyses show that … of 20, 40, 80 and 120 m evaluated, and the segmentation accuracy decreased with the increase of the flight height. The Precision, Dice, Recall, and
01203|Development of Recurrent Neural Networks for Thermal/Electrical Analysis of Non-Residential Buildings Based on Energy Consumptions Data
   > the EnergyPlus™ dynamic simulation software over a timespan of a year in different locations, and the data are then used to train neural network models.
01204|Deep Learning Segmentation Models for UAV-Based Detection of Crop Damage in Rapeseed Using RGB Imagery
   > assessment of wildlife-induced crop damage, and that reporting class-specific metrics in spatially independent test sets is essential for realistic performance evaluation.
01205|An evaluation of alternative statistical models for predicting habitat suitability for weeds
   > [no term] Abstract S inapis arvensis (wild mustard) is a competitive weed of oilseed rape in Iran. The spatial distribution of S. arvensis and its habitat suitability zonation in Fars Province, Iran,
01206|Assessing the impact of watershed characteristics and management on nutrient concentrations in tropical rivers using a machine learning method
   > inland and coastal waters not only at the study site but also other regions.
01207|NegFluo, a Fast and Efficient Method to Determine Starch Granule Size and Morphology In Situ in Plant Chloroplasts
   > [no term] Starch granules that accumulate in the plastids of plants vary in size, shape, phosphate or protein content according to their botanical origin. Depending on their size, the applications in food
01208|CADFFNet: a dual-branch neural network for non-destructive detection of cigar leaf moisture content during air-curing stage
   > curing process based on dual-view RGB images. Firstly, the model utilizes two independent and parallel ResNet as its backbone structure to capture the heterogeneous features … R2 of 0.974±0.007 and mean absolute error (MAE) of 3.80±0.37%. On an independent cross-region, cross-variety testing set, it maintains strong generalization (R2=0.899, MAE=5.82%), compared with the classic CNN models ResNet1
01209|Quantifying the reliability gap in cross-domain plant disease classification: benchmarking the limited efficacy of standard mitigation techniques unde
   > Introduction Confidence calibration, selective prediction, out-of-distribution scoring, and deep ensembles are mature techniques in machine learning, yet their efficacy under the severe domain shift encountered when plant disease classifiers move from controlled laboratory imagery to heterogeneous field photographs has not been systematically benchmarked. Methods Models trained on PlantVillage wer
01210|Rice mapping based on Sentinel-1 images using the coupling of prior knowledge and deep semantic segmentation network: A case study in Northeast China 
   > suitable to express land covers. Finally, rice maps of Northeast China in different years were produced by the coupled U-Net and Sentinel-1 images. For the
01211|Machine Learning Model and Molecular Docking for Screening Medicinal Plants as HIV-1 Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors
   > [no term] The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 reverse transcriptase (HIV-1 RT) plays a significant role in viral replication and is one of the targets for anti-HIV. However, a mutation in viral
01212|Deep learning-based activity recognition and fine motor identification using 2D skeletons of cynomolgus monkeys
   > [no term] Video-based action recognition is becoming a vital tool in clinical research and neuroscientific study for disorder detection and prediction. However, action recognition currently used in non-human primate (NHP) research relies
01213|PEA-m6A: an ensemble learning framework for accurately predicting N6-methyladenosine modifications in plants
   > modifications under small-sample training tasks. PEA-m6A also has a strong capability for generalization, making it suitable for application in within- and cross-species m6A prediction. Overall, this study presents a promising m6A prediction tool, PEA-m6A, with outstanding performance in terms of its accuracy, flexibility, transferability, and generalization ability. PEA-m6A has been packaged usin
01214|Origin traceability of Yimucao (Chinese motherwort) in China using stable isotopes and extracts assisted by machine learning techniques
   > [no abstract]
01215|Conservation Gap Within a Nature Reserve: A Case Study in the Biodiversity Hotspot of Rare and Endangered Plants at the Southern Gaoligong Mountains
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Biodiversity loss significantly impacts the stability and functioning of ecosystems, driven by factors such as climate change, human activities, and other influences. Predicting species distributions and conducting conservation gap
01216|Evaluation of machine learning algorithm capability for Bosten Lake Wetland classification based on multi-temporal Sentinel-2 data
   > extracting water information in Bosten Lake wetland. • Extensive reference dataset, covering different years and months (540,241 samples). • The combination of vegetation water index … wetland area was stable, while the area of farmland and construction land decreased.
01217|Machine Learning‐Enabled Intelligent Technologies Across the Grape and Wine Value Chain: From Vineyard Sensing to Winemaking Optimization
   > advances related to five key scientific challenges: multimodal data integration, model interpretability, cross-domain generalization, whole-chain decision coordination, and scalable industrial deployment. Particular emphasis is placed on … rapid progress, key challenges remain, including data scarcity and heterogeneity, limited model transferability, and high implementation costs. Emerging directi
01218|Tobacco yield estimation via multi-source data fusion and recurrent neural networks
   > (AE C1D ) to unify the input dimensions of raw data from different years. It was found that yield estimation performance from multi-source data was … a one-dimensional autoencoder to unify the temporal dimensions of raw data from different years. • The GRU model achieved promising results, with an R 2
01219|Transient heat transfer performance prediction using a machine learning approach for sensible heat storage in parabolic trough solar thermal power gen
   > [no abstract]
01220|Research on Drought Monitoring Based on Deep Learning: A Case Study of the Huang-Huai-Hai Region in China
   > The Huang-Huai-Hai Plain has shown significant regional variations in drought conditions across different years and months, with the drought situation gradually worsening in the northern
01221|Protocol for an evidence and gap map The impacts of agroforestry on agricultural productivity, ecosystem services, and human well-being in low- and mi
   > trees and forests at multiple scales" (ICRAF, 2017)—has often been supported by external actors, such as donor agencies and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Evidence on the … farm) as agricultural crops and/or animals. Agroforestry practices need not rely on external interventions, however. This EGM will therefore also include, for example, evidence on
01222|DeepPlantCRE: A Transformer-CNN Hybrid Framework for Plant Gene Expression Modeling and Cross-Species Generalization
   > interactions, while existing CNN-Transformer hybrid models demonstrate proneness to overfitting and inadequate generalization in cross-species prediction contexts. To address these challenges, this study proposes DeepPlantCRE, a deep-learning … AUC-ROC, and F1-score metrics over existing baselines (DeepCRE and PhytoExpr), with improved generalization performance and overfitting inhibiting. Cross-s
01223|Altitudinal variation in rhizosphere microbial communities of the endangered plant Lilium tsingtauense and the environmental factors driving this vari
   > [no term] ABSTRACT The rhizosphere soil properties and microbial communities of Lilium tsingtauense, an endangered wild plant, have not been examined in previous studies. Here, we characterized spatial variation in soil properties
01224|Coffee Leaf Plant Disease Identification through Image Processing and Machine-Learning Techniques in Ethiopia.
   > woody evergreens that can reach a height of up to ten meter’s in the wild with the fruit of coffee beans, which are the seeds
01225|Concept-guided deep learning with UAV-satellite sample augmentation for daily 10 m crop AGB mapping
   > [no abstract]
01226|AI for smart wastewater treatment plants: A review of physics-informed water quality modeling, optimization, and advanced control
   > and emission reduction potential. However, current applications still face limited interpretability, weak transferability across plants, and poor robustness to changing operating conditions. Therefore, this review
01227|PLDC‐Net: A Domain‐Specific Base Model for Plant Leaf Disease Classification Domain Adaptation Tasks
   > a limitation in the field of plant leaf disease classification. As such, domain adaptation methods such as transfer learning are often employed to overcome this data shortage. However, in current research, these domain adaptation methods almost exclusively rely on ImageNet as the pretraining dataset, a … of an improved attention-based and SiLU-activated DenseNet201 architecture called PLDC-Net tha
01228|Modified invasive weed optimization MPPT approach for PV system interfaced with BLDC motor for water pumping system
   > WPSs that will interface with the single PVS to supply water to different locations with the two BLDC motors each. In order to reduce maintenance
01229|Development of software interface for AI-driven weed control in robotic vehicles, with time-based evaluation in indoor and field settings
   > NVIDIA Jetson embedded device as control and processing unit was developed and tested on lab and field conditions for weed control. The average time taken … real-time weed management approaches, enhancing the precision and efficiency of herbicide application Independent paired t -tests reveal that there is no significant difference in computational time between lab and field testing. Conversely, i
01230|Dimeric allostery mechanism of the plant circadian clock photoreceptor ZEITLUPE
   > [no term] In Arabidopsis thaliana, the Light-Oxygen-Voltage (LOV) domain containing protein ZEITLUPE (ZTL) integrates light quality, intensity, and duration into regulation of the circadian clock. Recent structural and biochemical studies of ZTL
01231|Application of the domain adaptation method using a phenological classification framework for the land-cover classification of North Korea
   > of the annual cycle using a U-Net deep learning model. Additionally, the domain adaptation (DA) method can be applied to classify areas with insufficient data.
01232|Assessing the contemporary status of Nebraska’s eastern saline wetlands by using a machine learning algorithm on the Google Earth Engine cloud computi
   > [no abstract]
01233|GSP-AI: An AI-Powered Platform for Identifying Key Growth Stages and the Vegetative-to-Reproductive Transition in Wheat Using Trilateral Drone Imagery
   > (GSs) for tens of thousands of genotypes at the plot level, at different sites and across multiple seasons. These indicate the importance of providing a
01234|Aerial Insights: Advancing Nitrogen Estimation in Field Crops using Multispectral Imaging
   > 0.68, with R2 values between 0.5 and 0.89. The models showed good transferability across both study sites and two years, suggesting the feasibility of scaling
01235|Counting Canola: Toward Generalizable Aerial Plant Detection Models
   > facets of a plant detector's training set can affect its ability to generalize to unseen image sets. In particular, we examine how a plant detection model's generalizability is influenced by the size, diversity, and quality of its training data. Our experiments show that the gap between in-distribution and out-of-distribution performance cannot be closed by merely increasing the size of a model's 
01236|Assessing the impact of soil water deficit and supplemental irrigation scenarios on Ohio’s maize and soybean yields using machine learning models
   > (∼0.21 Mt/ha), and counties with higher average yield increases were found in different regions of Ohio.
01237|Variety classification and identification of jujube based on near-infrared spectroscopy and 1D-CNN
   > [no abstract]
01238|Predicting IDH subtype of grade 4 astrocytoma and glioblastoma from tumor radiomic patterns extracted from multiparametric magnetic resonance images u
   > [no term] Background and purpose: Semantic imaging features have been used for molecular subclassification of high-grade gliomas. Radiomics-based prediction of molecular subgroups has the potential to strategize and individualize therapy. Using MRI
01239|A Multi–Task 3D–ResNet–BiLSTM transfer learning approach for winter wheat yield prediction using multi–source remote sensing data: Evaluating the impa
   > [no abstract]
01240|A Simple Neural Network for Estimating Fine Sediment Sources Using XRF and XRD
   > in Japan’s Oromushi River Catchment Basin. Fine soil samples were collected from different locations of the catchment basin, processed, and separately analysed using X-ray fluorescence
01241|Using Machine Learning for Performance Classification and Early Fault Detection in Solar Systems
   > accuracy score of 98.85% and 0.98 weighted F-score using the J48 model trained on a publicly available dataset of 874 instances collected from 26 different sites across Saudi. We anticipate that the findings of this work to
01242|PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF A COMMERCIAL WILD BLUEBERRY HARVESTER USING PRECISION AGRICULTURE TECHNOLOGIES AND MATHEMATICAL MODELING
   > [no term] The wild blueberry industry is currently facing increased harvesting losses due to changes in crop conditions caused by improved management practices. The objectives of this study were to sense the
01243|Sustainable lime production in Michoacan Mexico: An optimal and equitable approach with machine learning
   > [no abstract]
01244|Anomaly detection in IR images of PV modules using supervised contrastive learning
   > train and test data from the same distribution ignoring the presence of domain shift between data of different PV plants. Instead, we frame fault detection as more realistic unsupervised domain adaptation problem where we train on labeled data of one source PV plant and make predictions on another target plant. We train a ResNet‐34 convolutional neural network with a supervised … with a more reali
01245|Deep Learning in Remote Sensing–Driven Precision Agriculture: A Comparative Review of Models, Data Modalities, and Environmental Applications
   > [no abstract]
01246|Renyi entropy analysis of a deep convolutional representation for texture recognition
   > [no abstract]
01247|TABS-Net: A Temporal Spectral Attentive Block with Space–Time Fusion Network for Robust Cross-Year Crop Mapping
   > training to explicitly align seasonal timing and simulate phenological shifts, thereby enhancing cross-year robustness. We conduct a comprehensive evaluation on a Cropland Data Layer (CDL) … strong baselines, including 2D stacking, 1D temporal convolution/LSTM, and transformer models. In cross-year experiments, we quantify temporal stability using inter-annual robustness (IAR); with both DOY
01248|Multi-stage fine-grained vision classification method via attentional crop-mixing and cross-region contrast
   > [no abstract]
01249|A lightweight CNN supported by partially skip-connected CAE for plant disease identification across multiple agricultural environments
   > [no abstract]
01250|From Benchmark Accuracy to Field Performance: Hybrid Deep Learning-Based Plant Disease Classification with IoT-Enabled Environmental Monitoring
   > macro-averaged F1-score of 94%, outperforming several state-of-the-art architectures. To assess robustness under real-world conditions, the trained model was further tested on leaf images collected from open-field environments near Eluru, South India. The … revealed a reduction in classification accuracy to 61.97%, indicating the impact of domain shift and environmental variability. To investigate
01251|ADAM-DETR: an intelligent rice disease detection method based on adaptive multi-scale feature fusion
   > mAP@50 on the public Kamatis dataset with a 2.19% enhancement, validating its cross-domain generalization capability. The algorithm requires only 42.8G FLOPs with 14.3M parameters, achieving an
01252|Research on crop phenotype prediction using SNP context and whole-genome feature embedding
   > two novel feature embedding modes (SNP-context and whole-genome) based on DNABERT-2, a cross-species genomic foundation model that uses self-attention mechanisms and transfer learning to automatically
01253|deepTFBS: Improving within‐ and Cross‐Species Prediction of Transcription Factor Binding Using Deep Multi‐Task and Transfer Learning
   > binding profiles to enhance the prediction of TFBSs under small-sample training and cross-species prediction tasks. When tested using available information on 359 Arabidopsis TFs, deepTFBS … 23.32% improvement of the area under the precision-recall curve (PRAUC), respectively. Further cross-species prediction of TFBS in wheat showed that deepTFBS yielded a significant PRAUC
01254|The Application of Modern Information Technology in the Protection of Wild Plants
   > [no term] With the rapid development of information technology, its application in the field of wild plant protection has become increasingly important. This study aims to explore the application of modern information
01255|Single‐molecule long‐read sequencing reveals extensive genomic and transcriptomic variation between maize and its wild relative teosinte ( Zea mays ss
   > [no term] Teosinte (Zea mays ssp. parviglumis), the wild progenitor of maize (Zea mays L.), is an important germplasm resource for improvement of modern maize lines. However, we have limited genetic and
01256|Portable optical spectroscopy and machine learning techniques for quantification of the biochemical content of raw food materials
   > [no term] Abstract Background Accuracy in determining food authenticity, possible contamination, content analysis, and even geographical origin is of considerable scientific and economic value. The aim of this study is to facilitate
01257|Benchmarking the Structure-Based Virtual Screening Performance of Wild-Type and Resistant PfDHFR Using Docking and Machine Learning Re-Scoring
   > [no term] Purpose: Malaria, caused by the parasite Plasmodium falciparum , remains a critical health challenge. Its enzyme Dihydrofolate Reductase ( Pf DHFR) is vital for the parasite’s survival and a key
01258|FEGW-YOLO: A Feature-Complexity-Guided Lightweight Framework for Real-Time Multi-Crop Detection with Advanced Sensing Integration on Edge Devices
   > knobs. Extensive experiments on a custom strawberry dataset (11,752 annotated instances) and cross-crop validation on apples, tomatoes, and grapes demonstrate that FEGW-YOLO achieves 95.1% mAP@0.5
01259|Regional variability of terrain index and machine learning model applications for prediction of ephemeral gullies
   > [no abstract]
01260|Multi-Sensor NDVI Time Series for Crop and Fallow Land Classification in Khabarovsk Krai, Russia
   > in the advancement of sustainable agriculture. However, multiannual satellite-based crop mapping across different regions remains challenging due to variations in crop phenology and meteorological conditions.
01261|Deep-learning based representation and recognition for genome variants—from SNVs to structural variants
   > fully address real-world scenarios, leading to omissions, errors and a lack of generalization among applications. However, the application of AI, particularly deep-learning methods, has revolutionized … networks (RNNs). CNNs draw inspiration from animal visual cortices. Each convolutional neuron independently responds to a specific image region and extracts features. In contrast, RNNs
01262|Half a Percent of Labels is Enough: Efficient Animal Detection in UAV Imagery Using Deep CNNs and Active Learning
   > detector that can be reused for repeated acquisitions, e.g., in follow-up years. Domain shifts between data sets typically prevent such a direct model application. We … samples according to their likelihood of being animals, and this ranking is transferred to the target data set. Unlike conventional AL criteria that exploit model
01263|Optimization of probiotic beverage made from Sohiong fruit using response surface methodology and artificial neural network–genetic algorithm hybrid m
   > [no term]  In this study, a probiotic beverage from Sohiong ( Prunus nepalensis ), an underutilized wild edible fruit rich in phenolics and anthocyanins, was optimized using both RSM and ANN–GA
01264|Agroecosystem research with big data and a modified scientific method using machine learning concepts
   > [no term] Abstract Long‐term studies of agroecosystems distributed across the North American continent are providing an extraordinary understanding of regional environmental dynamics. The new Long‐Term Agro‐ecosystem Research (LTAR) network (organized in 2012)
01265|Authenticity markers of cultivated blueberries (Vaccinium sp.) and European wild blueberry (V. myrtillus) assessed by hyperspectral imaging and machin
   > [no term] The present study was undertaken to tackle food fraud in the food chain by developing a novel panel of analytical fingerprints to distinguish the fruit of bilberry ( Vaccinium myrtillus
01266|Colorado Potato Beetle Resistance in Solanum oplocense X Solanum tuberosum Intercross Hybrids and Metabolite Markers for Selection
   > [no abstract]
01267|Identifying the driving factors of soil nitrate nitrogen via MLs-GIS framework in an intensive plain agricultural area, China
   > [no abstract]
01268|Explainable deep learning ensemble framework for accurate classification of wild poisonous mushroom species
   > [no term] This study introduces an explainable deep learning framework for the accurate classification of wild poisonous mushroom species, contributing to food safety. A balanced dataset of 3600 high-resolution images representing 18
01269|Efficient physics-informed transfer learning to quantify biochemical traits of winter wheat from UAV multispectral imagery
   > fast and cost-effective measurements of these traits. However, traditional statistical regression models trained on specific datasets lack scalability and transferability across practical field conditions without retraining. This study proposed an efficient physics-informed
01270|Sentinel-2 for Crop Yield Estimation: A Systematic Review
   > remains constrained by limited ground-truth data, cloud-induced gaps, and challenges in model transferability across years and locations. Future directions include tighter integration of multi-modal data
01271|Field-Aware and Explainable Modelling for Early-Season Crop Yield Prediction Using Satellite-Derived Phenology
   > and seasonal potential evapotranspiration, and multiple modelling strategies were assessed using a leave-one-field-out cross-validation (LOFO CV) scheme to ensure spatial generalisation. Among the evaluated models, the Random Forest (RF) algorithm achieved the highest
01272|Learn from Simulations, Adapt to Observations: Super-Resolution of Isoprene Emissions via Unpaired Domain Adaptation
   > the spatial resolution of satellite-derived isoprene emissions, investigating the adoption of efficient domain adaptation (DA) techniques to bridge the gap between numerically simulated emissions and
01273|Performance evaluation of Machine Learning based regression models for rainfall forecasting
   > [no abstract]
01274|[Method for the Discrimination of the Variety of Potatoes with Vis/NIR Spectroscopy].
   > potato samples (Sample A 142, Sample B 84, Sample C 126) from different sites in Heilongjiang province of China, obtained from peddlers market, were randomly
01275|Field-based explainable machine learning for interval-scale groundwater dynamics in agricultural managed aquifer recharge (Ag-MAR)
   > [no abstract]
01276|Assessing the Effectiveness of Augmentation Techniques in Enhancing Plant Leaf Disease Classification
   > [no term] Plant leaf disease identification is vital for food security, as plant diseases cause significant agricultural losses. Early detection of symptoms on plant leaves is crucial for minimizing yield loss. Traditional
01277|pH Prediction by Artificial Neural Networks for the Drinking Water of the Distribution System of Hyderabad City
   > Network) model is developed and validated for predicting the pH at 10 different locations of the distribution system of drinking water of Hyderabad city. The
01278|How to eat an idea—A roadmap for translation and impact in plant biology
   > [no term] As we approach the end of the first quarter of the 21st century, it seems as if there has never been a better or more exciting time to work in
01279|Spatial habitat suitability prediction of essential oil wild plants on Indonesia’s degraded lands
   > industries. Indonesia is the sixth largest essential oil producing country, but land degradation is a risk to the continuing extraction and utilization of natural products. Production of essential oil plants on degraded lands is a potential strategy to mitigate this risk. This study aimed to identify degraded lands in Indonesia that could be suitable habitats for five wild native … analysis (FDA),
01280|Smart weed recognition in saffron fields based on an improved EfficientNetB0 model and RGB images
   > [no term] Smart weed-crop discrimination is crucial for modern precision weed management. In this study, we aimed to develop a robust system for site-specific weed control in saffron fields by utilizing color
01281|Predicting Water Stress in Wild Blueberry Fields Using Airborne Visible and Near Infrared Imaging Spectroscopy
   > [no term] Water management and irrigation practices are persistent challenges for many agricultural systems, exacerbated by changing seasonal and weather patterns. The wild blueberry industry is at heightened susceptibility due to its
01282|Corn grain year identification based on Raman spectroscopy and machine learning
   > Raman spectroscopy with machine learning methods in corn year identification. Methods Five different years of corn were selected as experimental samples, and spectral data of … information is extracted through dimensionality reduction using linear discriminant analysis (LDA) and independent component analysis (ICA). Finally, year recognition is achieved through support vector machine
01283|CircPCBL: Identification of Plant CircRNAs with a CNN-BiGRU-GLT Model
   > a fully connected layer to produce the final output. To verify the generalization performance of the model, we evaluated CircPCBL using several datasets, and the … six different plants species and 85.88%, 75.87%, and 86.83% on the three cross-species independent test sets composed of Cucumis sativus, Populus trichocarpa, and Gossypium raimondii, respectively.
01284|Decision fusion and non-parametric classifiers for land use mapping using multi-temporal RapidEye data
   > input dataset and aggregating the probabilistic outputs of the base classifiers with another meta-classifier. During the decision fusion, the reliability of each base classifier algorithm … considered to exclude less reliable inputs at the class-basis. The spatial and temporal transferability of the classifiers was evaluated using data sets from four different agricultural landscapes with differen
01285|Soil Organic Carbon Estimation and Transfer Framework in Agricultural Areas Based on Spatiotemporal Constraint Strategy Combined with Active and Passi
   > models for SOC modeling was assessed, focusing on spatial interpolation accuracy and cross-spatial transfer accuracy, using two field observation datasets for modeling and validation. Results … SMAPVEX12, and by 18.4%, 8.8%, and 3.4% for the SMAPVEX16-MB, respectively. However, cross-spatial transfer accuracy of the regression models remains limited (RMSE = 0.866–1.043 g/kg
01286|An Improved Ningxia Desert Herbaceous Plant Classification Algorithm Based on YOLOv8
   > and effectively identify desert grassland plants. Compared to the original model, FLOPs decreased by 50.8%, accuracy improved by 4.5%, and mAP increased by 5.6%. Currently,
01287|Spatial divergence of nitrogen fate in China's wheat systems: a meta-analysis and machine-learning roadmap for region-specific management
   > trend from north to south, whereas N residual and N loss gradually decreased. NH 3 volatilization accounted for 91.76% of total N loss in northern … Enhancing nitrogen uptake is the top priority in increasing wheat yield across different regions of China, while the role of fertilizer N loss and residual
01288|Prediction of Global Distribution of Ganoderma lucidum (Leys.) Karsten: A Machine Learning Maxent Analysis for A Commercially Important Plant Fungus
   > [no term] The global habitat suitability of the fungus was simulated using the Maxent machine learning technique in Ganoderma lucidum relation to a number of environmental factors.1159 geographically thinned presence points were
01289|Chemistry of floral rewards: intra‐ and interspecific variability of nectar and pollen secondary metabolites across taxa
   > [no term] Abstract Floral chemistry mediates plant interactions with pollinators, pathogens, and herbivores, with major consequences for fitness of both plants and flower visitors. The outcome of such interactions often depends on
01290|Advances in the machine learning construction process for citrus quality and disease detection
   > [no abstract]
01291|Development of a comprehensive fatigue detection model for beekeeping activities based on deep learning and EEG signals
   > [no abstract]
01292|Predictive Modelling of Land Cover Changes in the Greater Amanzule Peatlands Using Multi-Source Remote Sensing and Machine Learning Techniques
   > natural forest cover (5965 ± 353.72 hectares). Sparse vegetation, including smallholder farms, decreased by 35% from 45,064 ± 163.79 hectares to 29,424 ± 114.81 hectares. … accurate and detailed landscape-scale monitoring of tropical peatlands that is applicable to other regions facing similar environmental challenges.
01293|Taxonomic identification of hoverfly specimens using neural network and gradient boosting machine techniques
   > [no term] The correct identification of single specimens on a particular area has great importance in establishing appropriate biodiversity protection programs. Species of the genus Merodon Meigen, 1803 (Diptera, Syrphidae) represent important
01294|A UNIFIED APPROACH TO ANIMAL INTRUSION DETECTION FOR PREVENTING HUMAN-WILDLIFE CONFLICT AND CROP PROTECTION
   > [no term] There is a demand for higher food production due to rising human population. The productivity of the farm depends on how the vegetation is protected from the attacks of pests,
01295|Real-Time Detection and Validation of a Target-Oriented Model for Spindle-Shaped Tree Trunks Leveraging Deep Learning
   > [no term] To enhance the automation and intelligence of trenching fertilization operations, this research proposes a real-time trunk detection model (Trunk-Seek) designed for spindle-shaped orchards. The model employs a customized data augmentation
01296|Pesticide Residue Coverage Estimation on Citrus Leaf Using Image Analysis Assisted by Machine Learning
   > using a specialized Mask Region-Based Convolutional Neural Network (CNN). This CNN was pre-trained on the MS COCO dataset and fine-tuned by training with acquired datasets
01297|Image Classification of Amazon Parrots by Deep Learning: A Potentially Useful Tool for Wildlife Conservation
   > [no term] Simple Summary Most parrot species are threatened with extinction because of habitat loss and commercial trade. Parrot conservation is vital because parrots play an important role in the ecosystem. The
01298|Evaluating the Performance of AlphaEarth Foundation Embeddings for Irrigated Cropland Mapping Across Regions and Years
   > cropland mapping was performed in terms of feature separability, classification performance, and spatiotemporal transferability. Experiments were conducted in two representative irrigated regions: the Guanzhong Plain … and 2024 in the Guanzhong Plain and Kansas were conducted to examine cross-year and cross-region performance. The results showed that AEF embeddings consistently provide stronger cl
01299|Towards a hybrid model-driven platform based on flux balance analysis and a machine learning pipeline for biosystem design
   > [no term] Metabolic modeling and machine learning (ML) are crucial components of the evolving next-generation tools in systems and synthetic biology, aiming to unravel the intricate relationship between genotype, phenotype, and the
01300|Geographic variation in secondary metabolites contents and their relationship with soil mineral elements in Pleuropterus multiflorum Thunb. from diffe
   > cultivation region of HSW has shifted from Guangdong to Sichuan, Guizhou, and other regions. The investigation of geographic variation in bioactive metabolite contents and their … displayed a wider range of variation compared with emodin and physcion among different regions. Eight compounds were screened as the differential metabolites in HSW samples
01301|CRoP: Context-wise Robust Static Human-Sensing Personalization
   > or contexts, challenge the generic neural network model's performance due to natural distribution shifts. To address this, personalization tailors models to individual users. Yet most personalization studies overlook intra-user heterogeneity across contexts in sensory data, limiting intra-user generalizability. This limitation is especially critical in clinical applications, where limited data ava
01302|Manifold and spatiotemporal learning on multispectral unoccupied aerial system imagery for phenotype prediction
   > plant phenotypes from remotely sensed imagery. However, prediction models often fail to generalize well from one year to the next or to new environments. Here, we investigate the ability of various machine learning (ML) approaches to improve yield prediction accuracy in new environments from multispectral timeseries imagery acquired on a set of rice (Oryza … held‐out growing season for a spatiotem
01303|Automated detection of downy mildew and powdery mildew symptoms for vineyard disease management
   > powdery mildew symptoms in grapevines, with particular attention to the role of data partitioning and dataset diversity in ensuring reliable model performance. Leveraging deep learning … contribution of this study is the emphasis on the importance of proper data partitioning strategies, showing that random image partitioning can lead to an overestimation
01304|A Data-Centric Approach for Wind Plant Instance-Level Segmentation Using Semantic Segmentation and GIS
   > easily applied for mapping wind plants in Brazil and be expanded to other regions worldwide. With this approach, we aim to provide a cost-effective and
01305|Herbage biomass predictions from UAV data using a derived digital terrain model and machine learning
   > agronomic variables from UAV images only. The model was successfully evaluated with independent test data from different sites on the Swiss central plateau, including both grazed and mown areas. Model performance on an independent validation dataset achieved a NRMSE of 20.3%, while the training dataset had … NRMSE of 21.5%. These consistent results confirm that estiGrass3D + is both transferable a
01306|Hybrid vision transformer model for defect classification in photovoltaic modules using thermographic imaging: Leveraging self-attention mechanisms fo
   > [no abstract]
01307|AI-integrated metabolomics maps functional divergence of microbial consortia in field-grown maize
   > light on the complex molecular interactions between maize and microbial biostimulants under real-world conditions. It reveals that distinct microbial formulations differentially influence plant metabolism by
01308|Large-scale mapping of plastic-mulched land from Sentinel-2 using an index-feature-spatial-attention fused deep learning model
   > discriminative features and thus for accurately detecting PML. The proposed model was trained on one agricultural zone with 2019 Sentinel-2 data and evaluated across six … data acquired over 2019 and 2023 to examine the spatial, temporal and across-sensor transferability. Results show that the IFSA_DLM model outperforms three compared U-Net series models
01309|Generalized space-time classifiers for monitoring sugarcane areas in Brazil
   > same period. For operational monitoring purposes, however, it is critical to develop generalized classification methodologies applicable to large scales and different years. Generalized classifiers were presented in this study as follows: a) simple cross-year calibration and application (M1); b) multiyear calibrations (M2); and c) map updating … reference maps were used to calibrate and validate t
01310|Machine vision system for real-time debris detection on mechanical wild blueberry harvesters
   > [no term] Improving fruit quality is important to wild blueberry producers. Plant debris like leaves and stems caused a reduction in fruit quality during mechanical harvesting. A debris detection system was developed
01311|A Fine Agricultural Flood Segmentation Model for HJ-2E S-Band SAR Data
   > SAM2 as its backbone and integrates the adapter module to enable efficient cross-domain knowledge transfer from natural images to S-band SAR data. In addition, a
01312|Upscaling CO2 fluxes from agricultural drained lowland peatlands in England using remote sensing and machine learning
   > more accurate in grasslands compared to croplands. We validated the model with spatial cross-validation, finding it accurately predicts NEE seasonality at an unseen grassland site but deviates from observed mean values in winter and spring.
01313|Machine learning approach for discrimination of genotypes based on bright-field cellular images
   > [no term] Morphological profiling is a combination of established optical microscopes and cutting-edge machine vision technologies, which stacks up successful applications in high-throughput phenotyping. One major question is how much information can
01314|A spontaneous keypoints connection algorithm for leafy plants skeletonization and phenotypes extraction
   > regular morphological cases) and extracted five phenotypic parameters from the resulting skeletons. Generalization was further assessed on a maize image dataset. Results: On orchid images, … from the skeletons. The method also showed effective skeletonization on maize, indicating cross-species applicability. Discussion: By eliminating manual labels and training, this approach reduces annotation
01315|Classification of Rice Seeds Grown in Different Geographical Environments: An Approach Based on Improved Residual Networks
   > The experiment collected rice with the name of Ji-Japonica 830 from 10 different regions, and a total of 10,600 rice grains were obtained, and the
01316|Machine learning approaches for wheat yield prediction integrating biophysical modeling and remote sensing: Effects of sample size, dimensionality, an
   > yield prediction, particularly in terms of sample size efficiency, dimensionality reduction, and spatial transferability, remains insufficiently examined. In this study, we address this gap by … coefficient of determination (R²) increased from 0.65 to 0.73, and the RMSE decreased from 0.67 to 0.58. GPR showed an increase in R² from 0.66
01317|SURFACE MOISTURE AND IRRIGATION MAPPING AT AGRICULTURAL FIELD SCALE USING THE SYNERGY SENTINEL-1/SENTINEL-2 DATA
   > agricultural regions, south of France, Urgell (Spain) and Merguellil (Tunisia). In these different sites, important ground campaigns have been realized over reference fields with different
01318|Assessment of Mycological Possibility Using Machine Learning Models for Effective Inclusion in Sustainable Forest Management
   > [no term] The integral role of wild fungi in ecosystems, including provisioning, regulating, cultural, and supporting services, is well recognized. However, quantifying and predicting wild mushroom yields is challenging due to spatial
01319|Predicting tile drainage discharge using machine learning algorithms
   > their impact on the predictions. Data from 53 drainage stations distributed in different regions of Denmark were collected and used for the analysis. The covariates … Random Forest and Cubist were selected as predictive models. Both models were trained on the dataset and used to predict yearly drainage discharge. Results highlighted
01320|Modelling the Unidentified Abortion Burden from Four Infectious Pathogenic Microorganisms (Leptospira interrogans, Brucella abortus, Brucella ovis, an
   > in sheep was predicted according to the artificial neural network approach and Generalized Linear Model (GLM) in a geographic area of the Mexican highlands. The … floors, bed of straw, and the well water supply were also remained independently associated with infectious abortion. We suggest that sensitizing stakeholders on good agricultural
01321|Extracting Quantitative Information from Images Taken in the Wild: A Case Study of Two Vicariants of the Ophrys aveyronensis Species Complex
   > [no term] Characterising phenotypic differentiation is crucial to understand which traits are involved in population divergence and establish the evolutionary scenario underlying the speciation process. Species harbouring a disjunct spatial distribution or
01322|Leveraging knowledge distillation for lightweight and interpretable deep learning in Ethiopian medicinal plant classification
   > development of standardized botanical classification systems. Future studies are recommended to explore cross-domain datasets, multimodal data integration, and real-time deployment in resource-constrained environments.
01323|Decoding the mystery: AI-assisted bioinformatics and functional genomics technologies in medicinal plants
   > the process of identifying genes of interest from genomic data. This is another area where AI excels. ML models classify genes based on sequence and … the transcription factors that control alkaloid production. Transfer learning has also enabled cross-species predictions, such as the identification of metabolism-related genes in S. lycopersicum (Badia-i-Mompel
01324|Deep learning to extract the meteorological by‐catch of wildlife cameras
   > [no term] Microclimate-proximal climatic variation at scales of metres and minutes-can exacerbate or mitigate the impacts of climate change on biodiversity. However, most microclimate studies are temperature centric, and do not consider
01325|Leveraging machine learning techniques for image classification and revealing social media insights into human engagement with urban wild spaces
   > [no term] In recent years, machine learning models have exhibited excellent performance and far-reaching impact across domains such as fraud detection in finance, recommendation systems in e-commerce, medical imaging in healthcare, agricultural
01326|Hierarchical Multi-Stage Framework for Robust and Explainable Tomato Leaf Disease Identification
   > reliable and explainable tomato disease identification systems challenging. Traditional deep learning models trained on controlled datasets often fail to generalize in real-world farm environments due to complex backgrounds and variations in illumination … LIME interpretability. To evaluate the impact of the pipeline on robustness and generalization, we conducted cross-domain experiments in two se
01327|Integrated biotechnological and artificial intelligence innovations for plant improvement
   > can design Rubisco enzymes with higher photosynthetic efficiency, metabolic enzymes capable of degrading novel herbicides, or diseaseresistant proteins with broad-spectrum resistance to specific pathogens. The … models to predict the field performance of plants with specific genotypes across different years and regions, enabling more informed breeding decisions. The advantage lies in
01328|Machine-learning models based on biological ligand theory and quantitative ion character-activity relationship for predicting metal plant toxicity
   > character-activity relationship (QICAR) to construct a features-informed machine-learning framework (MLBLM-QICAR) for predicting cross-species metal toxicity in heterogeneous soil conditions. Analyzing 2075 standardized experimental records spanning
01329|Facial Expression Recognition in the Wild for Low-Resolution Images Using Voting Residual Network
   > Facial expression recognition (FER) in the wild has attracted much attention in recent years due to its wide range of applications. Most current approaches use deep learning models trained on relatively large images, which significantly reduces their accuracy when they have
01330|FineCrop: Mapping fine-grained crops using class-aware feature decoupling and parcel-aware class rebalancing with Sentinel-2 time series
   > [no abstract]
01331|Aerial imagery and deep learning accurately estimate maize foliar disease severity
   > to estimate disease severity. The best-performing model, EVA-02-B, achieved strong cross year generalization (R 2 = 0.697). Error analysis found that performance was more strongly
01332|Winter wheat yield estimation based on multisource remote sensing data: A dual-branch TCN-Transformer model and analysis of growth-stage feature trans
   > heading-milk (T26–T29), and finally LAI‒PRE dominance at maturity (T30–T32). Furthermore, the one-year leave-one-out cross-validation confirms the robustness of the TCT model, the simulation of yield spatial distribution for unseen years is consistent with the official yield data. Additionally, the proposed interpretability framework not only performed excellently in this study but also demonstrat
01333|Deep learning-driven semi-rational design in phenylalanine ammonia-lyase for enhanced catalytic efficiency
   > [no term] Phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) possesses significant potential in agriculture, industry, and the treatment of various diseases, including cancer. In particular, PAL derived from Anabaena variabilis (AvPAL) has been successfully utilized in
01334|A rapid and reliable method for discriminating rice products from different regions using MCX-based solid-phase extraction and DI-MS/MS-based metabolo
   > [no abstract]
01335|RWB-Net: A deep learning framework for automated weld bead segmentation and classification in nuclear reprocessing plants
   > [no abstract]
01336|Mid-infrared spectroscopy combined with multivariate analysis and machine-learning: A powerful tool to simultaneously assess geographical origin, grow
   > [no abstract]
01337|Anticipatory Understanding of Resilient Agriculture to Climate
   > food distribution system. While we feel that the methods are adaptable to other regions of the world, we focus our analysis on the wheat breadbasket … of the world's population. We present a quantitative analysis of deep learning domain adaptation methods for wheat farm identification based on curated remote sensing data
01338|Variation analysis using random forests reveals domestication patterns and breeding trends in sugar beet
   > [no term] Summary Cultivated beets (Beta vulgaris), including sugar beet, are important crops, and several studies employed whole genome sequencing to explore genomic variation. We applied the machine learning method “random forests”
01339|Maturity detection and counting of blueberries in real orchards using a novel STF-YOLO model integrated with ByteTrack algorithm
   > of 72.49% across blue, purple, and green maturity classes in video sequences. Cross-dataset tests further confirmed its robustness. On the MegaFruit benchmark (close-range images), STF-YOLO
01340|Distance-based Support Vector Machine to Predict DNA N6- methyladenine Modification
   > 0.942, 0.982 and 0.840 F1 scores for the rice, M. musculus and cross-species genome datasets, respectively. Conclusion: These outcomes show that this model outperforms the
01341|Machine learning for biodiversity: UAV-based flower detection as an indirect proxy for bee abundance
   > [no term] Pollination plays a crucial role in supporting agriculture and ecosystem functioning, making it an essential ecosystem service provided by bees and other insects. However, bee populations are increasingly threatened by
01342|Wild Animal Intrusion Detection System usingYOLO
   > [no term] Agriculture plays a crucial role in the economy, and farmers strive to increase their crop yields annually. Hence effective reconnaissance is vital for farmlands and rural terrains to prevent unauthorized
01343|Cumulative temporal vegetation indices from unoccupied aerial systems allow maize (Zea mays L.) hybrid yield to be estimated across environments with 
   > study suggests that the best yielding varieties can be accurately predicted in new environments at or before flowering when combining multiple temporal flights and predictors.
01344|ICIS: Intelligent and Label-Free crop identifying using Multi-Source time series and model transfer
   > cycles of maize, rice, and soybeans. A Random Forest (RF) classifier was trained on representative sample sites, and model transfer was employed to predict crop distribution across different years and regions. The experimental results show that the models achieved F1-scores … consistently above 0.90, reaching up to 0.96. These results demonstrated the strong generalizability and robustness of the 
01345|Cross-pollination of knowledge for object detection in domain adaptation for industrial automation
   > processes, analyze complex visual data, and facilitate data-driven decisions, thus increasing productivity. Domain Adaptation for OD has recently gained prominence for its ability to recognize … this study proposes a novel, effective Cross-Pollination of Knowledge (CPK) strategy for domain adaptation inspired by botanical processes. The CPK approach involves merging target samples
01346|Withdrawn: Comparative Analysis of Modified Wasserstein Generative Adversarial Network with Gradient Penalty for Synthesizing Agricultural Weed Images
   > [no term] This study investigates the application of modified Wasserstein Generative Adversarial Networks with Gradient Penalty (WGAN-GP) to generate synthetic RGB and infrared (IR) datasets for precision agriculture, particularly targeting the detection
01347|Virtual staining from bright-field microscopy for label-free quantitative analysis of plant cell structures
   > successfully detected the expansion of cell nuclei upon aphidicolin treatment and a decrease in the cell aspect ratio upon propyzamide treatment, demonstrating its utility in
01348|Long history paddy rice mapping across Northeast China with deep learning and annual result enhancement method
   > 1985 to 2023 (available at https://doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.27604839.v1, Zhang et al., 2024). First, a cross-sensor paddy training dataset comprising 155 Landsat images was created to map the … to diminish the impact of the limited training sample in large-scale and across-sensors paddy rice mapping. The accuracy of the paddy rice dataset was evaluated
01349|Chronological Review and Performance Analysis of YOLO-Based Deep Learning Frameworks in Complex Geospatial Environments
   > across platforms, and post-processing pipelines. Critical limitations such as small object detection, domain shift, and class imbalance are discussed, followed by an exploration of emerging
01350|Developing Interpretable Pan Evaporation Forecasting Models for Wafra Agricultural Basin Based on Optimized Decision Tree Ensembles
   > (ML) models. However, many existing approaches suffer from limited interpretability and uncertain transferability, limiting their practical value in water resources planning. This study developed a transparent and generalizable ML framework incorporating three decision tree-based models to estimate daily pan evaporation … m/s wind speed, and <25% humidity. The models were tested at two independent
01351|Land use and climate change effects on soil organic carbon in North and Northeast China
   > SOC changes in this area while climate change had different contributions in different regions. SOC loss was remarkable under the land use conversion while cropland
01352|Trend analysis and performance of machine learning models for agroclimatology parameters in Bosso, Nigeria
   > [no abstract]
01353|Mapping Prosopis L. (Mesquites) Using Sentinel‐2 MSI Satellite Data, NDVI and SVI Spectral Indices with Maximum‐Likelihood and Random Forest Classifie
   > species is an aggressive IAP that has been considered a scourge in different regions of the globe. The aim of this study is to map
01354|Combining stable isotopes and multi-elements with machine learning chemometric models to identify the geographical origins of Tetrastigma hemsleyanum 
   > traceability. The results showed that this approach successfully distinguished T. hemsleyanum form different regions with the SVM, RF and FNN models all displaying a 100
01355|Generative AI-based pipeline architecture for increasing training efficiency in intelligent weed control systems
   > GenAI-based image generation pipeline integrates the Segment Anything Model (SAM) for zero-shot domain adaptation with a text-to-image Stable Diffusion Model, enabling the creation of synthetic … can accurately reflect the idiosyncratic properties and appearances of a variety of real-world conditions. We further assess the application of these synthetic datasets on edge
01356|Re-measurement of agricultural carbon emission rates: Drivers, regional differences and dynamic evolution
   > findings of this study are that China's agricultural carbon emission rate is decreasing, primarily due to technological advancements rather than technological efficiency. Subregions with robust … among subregions, particularly between the South China Area, the Huang-Huai-Hai Plain, and other regions. Therefore, this paper posits that strategies focusing on technological progress, sustainable
01357|Revolutionizing Crop Disease Management Fine-Tuned Integrated Convolutional Attention Capsule Autoencoder for Automated Paddy Leaf Disease Identificat
   > of FICACA on a large-scale dataset of paddy leaf images collected from different regions and seasons. We compare FICACA with several state-of-the-art methods and demonstrate its superiority in terms of accuracy, robustness, and generalization. We also conduct ablation studies to analyze the contribution of each component
01358|Automatic Fruit Recognition Based On Dcnn For Commercial Source Trace System
   > as challenging task due to similarities between various types of fruits and external environmental changes e-g lighting. In this paper, fruit recognition algorithm based on … were examined and evaluated under limited dataset, furthermore they have not considered external environmental changes. Another major contribution in this paper is that we established fruit images database
01359|A Self‐Supervised Framework for Refined Reconstruction of Geophysical Fields via Domain Adaptation
   > present AdaptDeep, a self‐supervised framework for refined reconstruction of geophysical fields via domain adaptation from the coarse‐scale source domain to the fine‐scale target domain. This method incorporates two pretext tasks, cropped field reconstruction and temporal augmentation‐assisted contrastive learning, to leverage spatial and temporal correlations in the target domain. A global propag
01360|Machine learning ensemble model prediction of northward shift in potato cyst nematodes (Globodera rostochiensis and G. pallida) distribution under cli
   > indicated that the distribution range of PCNs would shift northward with a decrease in tropical zones and an increase in northern latitudes. However, the total … research alerts policymakers and practitioners to the risk of PCNs’ incursion into new regions. Additionally, this ML process offers the capability to track changes in
01361|autoMEA: machine learning-based burst detection for multi-electrode array datasets
   > [no term] Neuronal activity in the highly organized networks of the central nervous system is the vital basis for various functional processes, such as perception, motor control, and cognition. Understanding interneuronal connectivity
01362|Predicting Plants in the Wild: Mapping Arctic and Boreal Plants with Uas-Based Visible and Near Infrared Reflectance Spectra
   > bias (overfitting caused by imbalance sample sizes) and variance (fit to the independent validation data), explaining > 50 % of the independent ground cover estimation and > 84 % accuracy in estimating validation pixels.
01363|Machine Learning-Based Prediction of Orphan Genes and Analysis of Different Hybrid Features of Monocot and Eudicot Plants
   > precision and accuracy of the proposed model based on fivefold cross-validation and independent testing reached 0.90 and 0.91, respectively, outperforming other classifiers in cross-species validation via other models, namely, Random Forest, AdaBoost, GBDT, and SVM. Furthermore,
01364|Small object detection: A comprehensive survey on challenges, techniques and real-world applications
   > augmentation, synthetic data generation, and transfer learning have addressed data scarcity and domain adaptation issues. Furthermore, emerging trends such as lightweight neural networks, knowledge distillation … discuss open research challenges and future directions, emphasizing the need for robust domain adaptation techniques, better feature fusion strategies, and real-time performance optimizat
01365|MLDAAPP: machine learning data acquisition for assessing population phenotypes
   > [no term] Collecting phenotypic data from many individuals is critical to answering fundamental biological questions, particularly in genetics. Yet, whole organismal phenotypic data are still often collected manually; limiting the scale of
01366|Framework for Apple Phenotype Feature Extraction Using Instance Segmentation and Edge Attention Mechanism
   > with the Transformer architecture, enhancing feature extraction and modeling long-range dependencies across different regions of an image. The edge perception mechanism improves segmentation accuracy by
01367|Interpretable domain adaptation enables robust lactic acid fermentation monitoring from waste
   > • Transferring predictive models without chemical analysis from the new environment. • Addressing FTIR shifts using DANN-R, DeepCORAL-R, DARE-GRAM, and TCA methods. … is a key compound in the circular bioeconomy, supporting the production of biodegradable plastics, pharmaceuticals, and food products. To optimize its production, real-time fermentation monitoring
01368|Crmp4-KO Mice as an Animal Model for Investigating Certain Phenotypes of Autism Spectrum Disorders
   > [no term] Previous research has demonstrated that the collapsin response mediator protein (CRMP) family is involved in the formation of neural networks. A recent whole-exome sequencing study identified a de novo variant
01369|Identifying predictors of tropical cyclone impacts on coastal agriculture to assess coastal wetland buffering signals
   > near croplands to enhance climate resilience. The approach can be applied in other regions where field monitoring is limited, offering a scalable tool to inform
01370|MLDAAPP: Machine Learning Data Acquisition for Assessing Population Phenotypes
   > [no term] Abstract Collecting phenotypic data from many individuals is critical to numerous biological disciplines. Yet, organismal phenotypic or trait data are still often collected manually, limiting the scale of data collection,
01371|Recognition and Changes Analysis of Complex Planting Patterns Based Time Series Landsat and Sentinel-2 Images in Jianghan Plain, China
   > effective for mapping large-scale planting patterns and can be readily applied to other regions.
01372|A 30 m terrace mapping in China using Landsat 8 imagery and digital elevation model based on the Google Earth Engine
   > Our terrace mapping algorithm can be used to map large-scale terraces in other regions globally, and our terrace map will serve as a landmark for
01373|Understanding and predicting ciprofloxacin minimum inhibitory concentration in Escherichia coli with machine learning
   > coli genomes had no country metadata available and were used as an independent test set. All data were deposited in the AMR Data Hub (24)
01374|Modeling environmental indicators for land leveling, using Artificial Neural Networks and Adaptive Neuron-Fuzzy Inference System
   > in energy consumption. The study consists of 90 samples, collected from three different regions. The grid size has been set on 20 m * 20
01375|Human-Aware Collaborative Robots in the Wild: Coping with Uncertainty in Activity Recognition
   > [no term] This study presents a novel approach to cope with the human behaviour uncertainty during Human-Robot Collaboration (HRC) in dynamic and unstructured environments, such as agriculture, forestry, and construction. These challenging
01376|Sticky Trap-Embedded Machine Vision for Tea Pest Monitoring: A Cross-Domain Transfer Learning Framework Addressing Few-Shot Small Target Detection
   > critical limitation. This manuscript proposes a YOLOv8-FasterTea pest detection algorithm based on cross-domain transfer learning, which was successfully deployed in a novel tea pest monitoring … the natural language character domain to the tea pest detection domain, termed cross-domain transfer learning, which is based on the complex and small characteristics shared
01377|SELECT: high-precision genome editing strategy via integration of CRISPR–Cas and DNA damage response for cross-species applications
   > [no term] Abstract CRISPR-based methods enable genome modifications for diverse applications but often face challenges, such as inconsistent efficiencies, reduced performance in iterative modifications, and difficulties generating high-quality datasets for high-throughput genome
01378|Water demand in watershed forecasting using a hybrid model based on autoregressive moving average and deep neural networks
   > a word, watershed managers need to make industrial water allocation schemes in different regions based on the forecast results of future water consumption, so as
01379|Sharing approaches in predictive genomics across animals, plants and humans
   > [no abstract]
01380|Estimating cropland soil organic carbon stock in Erhai Lake basin: Contribution of temporal-spatial-spectral information
   > [no abstract]
01381|Evaluation of Machine Learning, Deep Learning and Spectroscopy Integration for Early Huanglongbing Detection: Current Limitations and Future Direction
   > observed in affected trees and the economic impact of the disease in different regions of the world. One of the primary challenges is the ease
01382|Multi-temporal UAV rice AGB estimation with dynamic biomass allocation and interpretable deep learning
   > [no abstract]
01383|CA-SAUNet: Coordinate-Attention Enhanced Shape Attentive UNet for medical and agricultural image segmentation
   > [no abstract]
01384|MACHINE LEARNING APPLICATIONS IN RENEWABLE ENERGY: PREDICTIVE ANALYTICS FOR SOLAR CELL PERFORMANCE OPTIMIZATION AND ENERGY YIELD FORECASTING
   > hybrids improve robustness and physical plausibility under regime shifts or sparse data. Cross-regional validation exposes systematic optimism in single-site splits; region-out testing typically increases error, while transfer learning and domain adaptation halve that penalty in many cases. Data quality emerges as the
01385|Exploring spectral and phylogenetic diversity links with functional structure of aquatic plant communities
   > machine learning models within communities of floating hydrophytes and helophytes sampled from different sites. Our results show that all three functional diversity metrics can be … models (random forest; R 2 = 0.90–0.92), while parametric models perform worse (generalised additive models; R 2 = 0.40–0.79), especially for community evenness. Merging phylogenetic
01386|A Novel Hybrid-DCNN-Based Framework for Enhanced Rice Aboveground Biomass Estimation Under Limited Samples
   > spectral angle mapper (SAM) method to select simulated samples that closely match real-world conditions, simultaneously assigning geographic location information to the samples. Using these qualified
01387|Data Representation Bias and Conditional Distribution Shift Drive Predictive Performance Disparities in Multi-Population Machine Learning
   > challenges when applied to population-stratified datasets, where data representation bias and data distribution shifts substantially impact model performance and generalizability across different population groups. These challenges are well illustrated in the context … continental populations, we evaluate three approaches for utilizing population-stratified data, mixture learning, independent lear
01388|Domain adaptation using optimal transport for invariant learning using histopathology datasets
   > preparation protocol or scanners can alter the appearance of slides, causing models trained on one institution to fail when generalizing to others. Here, we propose a domain adaptation method that improves the generalization of histopathological models to data from unseen institutions, without the need for labels or retraining in these new settings. … color distribution, only our OT loss can relia
01389|A Deep Learning Model for Predicting DNA N6-Methyladenine (6mA) Sites in Eukaryotes
   > learning methods have room for performance improvement. DNA N6-methyladenine prediction in eukaryotic cross-species shows low performance. Hence, there is a need for a more accurate, … the proposed model achieves higher accuracies of 98.01%, 97.44%, 99.56% respectively for cross-species, Rice, and M. musculus genomes. The proposed model outperforms existing tools for
01390|AgriGen-XL: a physics-aware multi-scale generative framework integrating EfficientNet, DeepLabV3+, and YOLOv5 for precision agricultural imaging
   > across crops, livestock, and aquaculture domains continue to limit the robustness and generalization of conventional convolutional neural networks (CNNs). We present AgriGen-XL, a physics-aware generative … estimation under variable turbidity. The proposed system introduces three key contributions: a cross-domain synthetic data engine that encodes physical priors (e.g., illumination, canopy geomet
01391|Enhanced iodinated disinfection byproducts formation in iodide/iodate-containing water undergoing UV-chloramine sequential disinfection: Machine learn
   > algorithm outperformed the others in model development using synthetic waters and in cross-dataset generalization of surface waters. Shapley additive explanation (SHAP) analysis, partial dependence plots (PDPs),
01392|YOLO-CFruit: a robust object detection method for Camellia oleifera fruit in complex environments
   > the conventional YOLOv5s network. Discussion The robust performance of YOLO-CFruit under different real-world conditions, including different light and shading scenarios, signifies its high reliability and
01393|Implementation and Design of Wireless IoT Network using Deep Learning
   > which the internet is similar to everybody. IoT solutions are spread through different regions, such as agriculture, healthcare, the motor industry, education, and home automation,
01394|Optimising realism of synthetic images using cycle generative adversarial networks for improved part segmentation
   > of this paper to robotic vision is to provide supporting evidence that domain adaptation can be successfully used to translate and improve synthetic data to
01395|Modeling seasonal variations of long-term soil CO2 emissions in an orchard plantation in a semiarid area, SE Turkey
   > [no abstract]
01396|Implementation of Self-Organizing Map (SOM) Algorithm for Image Classification of Medicinal Weeds
   > [no term] Wild plants or weeds often become enemies or disturb the main cultivated plants. In its development, wild plants or weeds actually have ingredients that are beneficial to the body and
01397|MLFAnet: A Tomato Disease Classification Method Focusing on OOD Generalization
   > impact due to its impressive performance. However, better performance is verified by independent identical distribution (IID) samples of tomato disease, which breaks down dramatically on out-of-distribution (OOD) classification tasks. In this paper, we investigated the corruption shifts, which … a tomato disease classification method to improve the performance of corruption shift generalization. W
01398|Near-infrared spectroscopy for early selection of waxy cassava clones via seed analysis
   > [no term] Cassava ( Manihot esculenta Crantz) starch consists of amylopectin and amylose, with its properties determined by the proportion of these two polymers. Waxy starches contain at least 95% amylopectin. In
01399|NON-DESTRUCTIVE adulterants detection in Various honey types in Bangladesh using UV–VIS–NIR spectroscopy coupled with machine learning algorithms
   > with machine learning algorithms—Random Forest (RF), Support Vector Machine (SVM), and Soft Independent Modeling of Class Analogy (SIMCA). Four commonly consumed honey types in Bangladesh
01400|Real-Time Corn Variety Recognition Using an Efficient DenXt Architecture with Lightweight Optimizations
   > security and the stable development of the agricultural economy. Corn varieties from different regions have significant differences inblade, staminate and root cap characteristics, and these … Batch Normalization (RBN) is introduced into the DenseNet-121 model to improve the generalization ability of the model, and the SE module and deep separable convolution
01401|A Deep Learning Method for Cultivated Land Parcels’ (CLPs) Delineation From High-Resolution Remote Sensing Images With High-Generalization Capability
   > shown great potential in CLPs’ delineation but face challenges in detection accuracy, generalization capability, and parcel optimization quality. This study addresses these challenges by developing a high-generalization multitask detection network coupled with a specialized parcel optimization step. Our detection … and fine-grained boundary depiction. To improve the network’s ability to train more
01402|Exploiting adversarial style for generalized and robust weed segmentation in rice paddy field
   > distributions between laboratory and field environments through stochastic style transformation, enhancing cross-environment generalization. The DGB module employs adversarial optimization with gradient-guided perturbations to enhance feature
01403|SlimTom-DETR: A Lightweight and Real-Time Tomato Detection Model for Plant Factories With Complex Lighting Conditions
   > and parameters by 20.2% (19.8M to 15.8M). Comprehensive comparisons, ablation studies, and cross-domain evaluations on Laboro Tomato, WeedCrop, and VisDrone further verify that SlimTom-DETR attains a favorable accuracy–efficiency trade-off and strong generalization ability in complex agricultural environments.
01404|Identifying the primary drivers of soil erosion through machine learning: A comparative analysis of three algorithms
   > mitigation requires a detailed understanding of its contributing factors, which vary across different regions. In this research, we analyzed 15 factors influencing soil erosion using
01405|Knowledge-Guided Multi-Source Time-Series Approach for Spatially Robust Crop Type Classification
   > discrimination between crop types and background classes. Performance was rigorously evaluated using spatial cross-validation (SCV) to ensure geographic independence. Results demonstrate that the prior-guided CNN … prior knowledge into multi-source time-series learning improves classification accuracy while enhancing spatial generalizability and interpretability. More broadly, the proposed framewo
01406|Interannual spectral consistency and spatial uncertainties in UAV ‐based detection of boreal and subarctic mire plant communities
   > lower accuracies. Spectral and temporal inconsistencies in the UAV data collected in different years led to variations in the classifications, notably for the Rubus chamaemorus
01407|General-to-specific learning for facial attribute classification in the wild
   > deep convolutional network architecture for predicting multiple attributes from a single image in the wild. First, we model the interdependencies among all attributes by joint
01408|Design of a High-Efficiency Temporal Engine for Real-Time Spatial Satellite Image Classification Using Augmented Incremental Transfer Learning for Cro
   > [no abstract]
01409|Application of classification models in screening superior rice grain quality in male sterile and pollen parents
   > [no abstract]
01410|A data-driven approach utilizing machine learning (ML) and geographical information system (GIS)-based time series analysis with data augmentation for
   > the water quality datasets, generated during two-year period namely, 2022–2024, at nineteen different sites for 21 parameters. From the results, it produces two metrics, TKN … points towards moderately polluted category. The results highlighted that water quality is degraded at 4 places, is because of human activities, land use and industrialization.
01411|auton-survival: an Open-Source Package for Regression, Counterfactual Estimation, Evaluation and Phenotyping with Censored Time-to-Event Data
   > data. auton-survival includes tools for survival regression, adjustment in the presence of domain shift, counterfactual estimation, phenotyping for risk stratification, evaluation, as well as estimation
01412|Revolution and advances in gene editing and genomics technology for developing climate-resilient legume crops: developments and prospects
   > [no abstract]
01413|Improving the Accuracy of Seasonal Crop Coefficients in Grapevine from Sentinel-2 Data
   > of Kc values in vineyards. This approach was also shown to be transferable across cultivars and regions, providing a practical tool for crop monitoring and
01414|Advances and challenges in the applications of drone systems in precision agriculture: A review
   > payload limitations, environmental sensitivity, data-processing complexity, interoperability issues, and limited AI model transferability across different agricultural environments. Furthermore, model performance remains highly dependent on sensor
01415|Effects of environmental and anthropogenic factors on the distribution and abundance of microplastics in freshwater ecosystems
   > Our results indicate that region-specific policies are required to control microplastics in different regions, with soil composition being a latency factor that affects microplastics' distribution.
01416|Unveiling the infectious morphological behaviour of banana crop pathogenic nematodes inhabited from soil medium to pseudostem using an artificial inte
   > [no abstract]
01417|Cross-species comparative single-cell transcriptomics highlights the molecular evolution and genetic basis of male infertility
   > [no term] In male animals, spermatogonia in testes differentiate into sperm, one of the most diverse cell types across species. Despite the evolutionary retention of key genes essential for spermatogenesis, the extent
01418|A Sustainable Learning Framework: UAV-Based Oat Chlorophyll Monitoring Using Radiative Transfer Models and Deep Learning Techniques
   > model performance limited by ground-truth data and issues with spatiotemporal scalability and transferability, hinder the broader application of these methods. This study proposed a transferable pretraining framework (PROSAIL-StDNN), which leveraged knowledge from PROSAIL simulations through three deep … CCC RMSE by 11.68%–22.30%. Additionally, the PROSAIL-StDNN model demonstrated significant spat
01419|Tomato classification with YOLOv8: Enhancing automated sorting and quality assessment
   > red, and damaged, while also determining their size. The classification model was trained on a dataset of 2,145 images of tomatoes taken from different sources … in agricultural environments. This includes enhancing model robustness, improving classification accuracy under real-world conditions, and tailoring AI tools to better meet the demands of industrial
01420|Comparing Stability in Random Forest Models to Map Northern Great Plains Plant Communities Using 2015 and 2016 Pleiades Imagery
   > north central South Dakota, and assess the stability of RF models among different years. During 2015 and 2016, Pleiades satellites were tasked to image the
01421|Comparative metabolomics profiling reveals the aroma and nutritional diversity of eight wild edible plants
   > [no term] Wild edible plants are important yet undervalued vegetables, due to limited knowledge of their bioactive components and nutritional/functional potential. In this study, we used full-spectrum metabolomics and machine learning to
01422|Transfer learning: a cross domain LSTM way towards sustainable power predictive analytics
   > [no abstract]
01423|High-resolution mapping of Blueberry scorch virus incidence using RGB and multispectral UAV images and deep learning
   > to the viability of well-established highbush blueberry fields in North America and other regions. Early detection of the disease in the field, removal of infected
01424|A Spatial-Temporal Attention-Based U-Net for Crop Mapping from Time-Series Sentinel-2 Imagery: A Case in Sanjiang Plain
   > of 93.61% and an F1-score of 0.925, outperforming state-of-the-art methods. In spatial generalization tests, STA-UNet maintains overall accuracy above 85.02% in the left-subregion transfer setting … average OA of 81.34% in the rice-dominated right-subregion stress test, while temporal generalization tests confirm limited inter-annual performance degradation. These results indicate that STA-UNet pr
01425|Multi-source unsupervised domain adaptive mill load forecasting method based on deep learning and fusion features
   > [no abstract]
01426|Molecular breeding approaches for sustainable rice blast management: recent advances and challenges
   > [no term] Rice (Oryza sativa. L) is a staple crop globally, but blast disease caused by fungal pathogens Magnaporthe oryzae is one of the most devastating and results in severe economic losses
01427|Automatic cassava disease recognition using object segmentation and progressive learning
   > framework that enables early, accurate, and efficient detection of cassava diseases in real-world conditions. We propose a self-supervised object segmentation technique, combined with a progressive
01428|End-to-end fusion of RGB and low-resolution NIR for enhanced crop-specific NIR generation
   > Beyond quantitative evaluation, additional analyses including SSIM error map visualization, cross-resolution and cross-dataset testing, and reconstruction variability assessment provide deeper insight into the robustness, limitations, … RGB-to-NIR and NIR super-resolution by large margins. • Robustness validated via cross-resolution, cross-dataset, and error-map analysis.
01429|GB5mCPred: Cross-species 5mc Site Predictor Based on Bootstrap-based Stochastic Gradient Boosting Method for Poaceae
   > [no term]  One of the most prevalent epigenetic alterations in all three kingdoms of life is 5mC, which plays a part in a wide range of biological functions. Although in-vitro techniques
01430|Prediction method and application of temperature distribution in typical confined space spill fires based on deep learning
   > [no abstract]
01431|One-shot domain adaptive real-time 3D obstacle detection in farmland based on semantic-geometry-intensity fusion strategy
   > [no abstract]
01432|Benchmarking for practice: Few-shot time-series crop-type classification on the EuroCropsML dataset
   > for evaluating supervised and self-supervised learning (SSL) methods for crop-type classification under real-world conditions. This benchmark study relies on the EuroCropsML time-series dataset, which combines
01433|A novel cotton mapping index combining Sentinel-1 SAR and Sentinel-2 multispectral imagery
   > cotton growth period were analyzed. Considering the phenology differences of crops in different regions, the features at an adaptive window were adopted to construct the … potential of the CMI for cotton mapping. The applicability of CMI in other regions with different cropping systems and crop types needs to be further
01434|Prediction of the capacitance of the corn drying process parameter using adaptive- neuro-fuzzy intelligent technique with experimental validation
   > setup was established to get corn drying parameters (air temperature in the different locations, air humidity, and capacitance value). The twelve sensors measure the drying
01435|Effect of different weight initialization strategies on transfer learning for plant disease detection
   > disease detection: scratch (i.e., random initialization), pretrained model on cross‐domain (ImageNet), model trained on related domain (ISIC 2019), model trained on related domain (ISIC 2019) with cross‐domain (ImageNet) weights, model trained on same domain (PlantVillage), and model trained on same domain (PlantVillage) with cross‐domain weights (ImageNet). Weights from each strategy were transfe
01436|Spinach genomes reveal migration history and candidate genes for important crop traits
   > [no term] Abstract Spinach (Spinacia oleracea) is an important leafy crop possessing notable economic value and health benefits. Current genomic resources include reference genomes and genome-wide association studies. However, the worldwide genetic
01437|PlantSegNeRF: A few-shot, cross-species method for plant 3D instance point cloud reconstruction via joint-channel NeRF with multi-view image instance 
   > techniques for organ segmentation still face limitations in resolution, segmentation accuracy, and generalizability across various plant species. In this study, we proposed a novel approach … (mCov), and mean weighted coverage (mWCov), respectively. Furthermore, PlantSegNeRF demonstrates superior few-shot, cross-species performance, requiring only multi-view images of few plants to train models ap
01438|A Declaratory Model of Generalized Regression Neural Network (GRNN) for Estimating Sleep Apnea Index in the Elderly Suffering from Sleep Disturbance
   > [no term] Background: Tinospora cordifolia and Gynura procumbens are important medicinal plants native to South and Southeast Asia. This study integrates metagenomic and metabolomic approaches to compare microbial communities and bioactive compound
01439|The efficacy of machine learning algorithm for raw drug authentication in Coscinium fenestratum (Gaertn.) Colebr. employing a DNA barcode database
   > [no abstract]
01440|Large-Scale Mapping of Maize Plant Density Using Multi-Temporal Optical and Radar Data: Models, Potential and Application Strategy
   > advancement in large-scale crop density estimation, with the potential to expand to other regions and support precision agriculture efforts, offering a foundation for future research
01441|Prediction of Kv11.1 potassium channel PAS-domain variants trafficking via machine learning
   > [no abstract]
01442|Field spectroscopy and machine learning successfully predict grassland forage quality and quantity across climate zones
   > seasons and management gradients. Using machine-learning models, we assessed the performance and transferability of global and regional predictions for forage quality (metabolizable energy), and quantity … (nRMSE = 0.153, R 2 = 0.58). Neural networks showed highest global-to-regional transferability (nRMSE as low as 0.083), while globally trained partial least squares models
01443|The quest for understanding phenotypic variation via integrated approaches in the field environment
   > of this interaction. Therefore, the ability to study and quantify phenotypes under real-world conditions is essential to the basic understanding, as well as improvement, of
01444|Optimizing corn yield prediction: Integrating multi-temporal UAS data and machine learning
   > be beneficial to investigate whether the integration of VNIR and LWIR across different sites, years, and cultivars enhances yield performance in the future.
01445|A novel point cloud completion model for three-dimensional reconstruction of complex, dynamic population-level crop canopy architecture
   > estimation compared with incomplete and PoinTr-completed point clouds. CP-PCN also demonstrated strong cross-crop generalizability by successfully reconstructing mature rice canopies. Overall, this framework provides a scalable
01446|Implementing a Machine-Learning-Adapted Algorithm to Identify Possible Transthyretin Amyloid Cardiomyopathy at an Academic Medical Center
   > [no term] Background: Wild-type transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy (ATTR-CM) is a frequently under-recognized cause of heart failure (HF) in older patients. To improve identification of patients at risk for the disease, we initiated
01447|Developing a nitrogen application estimation model for diverse wheat fields: A user-friendly approach for smallholder nitrogen fertilizer recommendati
   > [no abstract]
01448|Mapping essential urban land use categories with open big data: Results for five metropolitan areas in the United States of America
   > Level-II classification at 88% and 81%, respectively. We also found that model transferability depended highly on the heterogeneity in characteristics of different regions. The methods and findings in this study systematically elucidate the role of data sources, classification methods, and feature transferability in block-level land use classifications, which have important implications for mappin
01449|UAV remote sensing for yield prediction in staple crops: a review
   > between UAV imagery and yield labels, error propagation during yield-map generation, limited cross-year and cross-region transferability, weak causal interpretability, and difficulties in deploying models under complex operational field
01450|Cross-sensor data reconstruction for optical remote sensing gap-filling with attention-enhanced multi-scale fusion network
   > reconstruction and visual quality, particularly in restoring fine details. The assessment of transferability further validates the model’s robustness and applicability across different periods and geographic
01451|Thermal and RGB image dataset for detection and management of Fall Army Worm (FAW) infestation in maize
   > applied 38 image augmentation techniques. These techniques were chosen to simulate various real-world conditions, such as changes in scale, orientation, lighting, and noise that might … that the dataset is well-suited for training deep learning models that can generalize across a variety of conditions and environments 8 . The augmented images
01452|Air Quality Index Prediction Using Machine Learning
   > machine learning techniques to comprehensively analyse and predict air quality levels across different regions of India. Extensive air quality data, encompassing various pollutants and temporal
01453|Durum Wheat Yield Prediction: A Machine Learning Framework Integrating Sentinel-2 Imagery and Meteorological Data
   > information for strategic decision-making and precision agriculture, yet achieving reliable forecasts across unseen growing seasons remains challenging. The main objective of this study is to … are trained to predict yield at the pixel level. To test model generalization and prevent overfitting, the framework is evaluated using both standard random splitting and leave-one-year-out (LOYO) cross-val
01454|Using machine learning with case studies to identify practices that reduce greenhouse gas emissions across Australian grain production regions
   > identify farm management practices that consistently provide greenhouse gas (GHG) abatement at different locations because effectiveness of practices is greatly influenced by climates and soils. … sequestration offsetting increased N2O emissions for both time frames. Increased cropping intensity decreased average gross margins, indicating that a carbon price would likely be needed
01455|Analysis and simulation of land cover changes and their impacts on land surface temperature in a lower Himalayan region
   > [no term] Rapid urbanization is changing the existing patterns of Land Use Land Cover (LULC) globally which is consequently increasing the Land Surface Temperature (LST) in many regions. Present study was focused
01456|Estimation and mechanism analysis of global evapotranspiration based on a physics-informed deep-learning model
   > [no abstract]
01457|Multi-Source Remote Sensing for large-scale biomass estimation in mediterranean olive orchards using GEDI LiDAR and Machine Learning
   > their dominance in olive production. The model effectively captured biomass variability across different regions, demonstrating its suitability for large-scale applications. This study highlights the potential
01458|Geographical discrimination of Boletus edulis using two dimensional correlation spectral or integrative two dimensional correlation spectral image wit
   > [no abstract]
01459|Multi-Crop Yield Estimation and Spatial Analysis of Agro-Climatic Indices Based on High-Resolution Climate Simulations in Türkiye’s Lakes Region, a Ty
   > For each crop, Random Forest (RF) regression models were fitted, and a Leave-One-Site-Out (LOSOCV) cross-validation method was used to evaluate model performance during the reference … across both basins. For 2070–2079, wheat and maize yields are projected to decrease by 10–20%, accompanied by wide uncertainty intervals. Both basins are expected to
01460|DDD: Discriminative Difficulty Distance for plant disease diagnosis
   > (ML) have highlighted concerns about the overestimated diagnostic performance due to inappropriate data partitioning, where training and test datasets are derived from the same source … development of more diverse and robust datasets. We investigated multiple image encoders trained on different datasets and examined whether the distances between datasets, measured using
01461|Automated phenotyping of rodent behavior in the Cylinder Exploration Test using machine learning
   > [no term] Rodent models are essential in neuroscience research for investigating brain function, CNS disease mechanisms, and therapeutic interventions. Beyond molecular and physiological analyses, precise behavioral characterization provides crucial functional readouts of
01462|Comparing Machine Learning Techniques for Alfalfa Biomass Yield Prediction
   > isolated our testing datasets by state to explore this problem's eligibility for domain adaptation (DA), as we trained on multiple source states and tested on one target state. This Trivial DA (TDA) approach leaves plenty of
01463|Interpretable machine learning-guided single-cell mapping deciphers multi-lineage pancreatic dysregulation in type 2 diabetes
   > decoded pancreatic cellular diversity, identifying 64 cell-type-specific markers (38 novel) that maintained cross-dataset accuracy (AUC > 0.970) even after excluding known canonical markers. Building on
01464|Unmanned Aerial Vehicle-Based RGB Imaging and Lightweight Deep Learning for Downy Mildew Detection in Kimchi Cabbage
   > outperformed Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)-based models in terms of classification accuracy and generalization capability. For late-stage disease detection, DeiT-Tiny recorded the highest test accuracy (0.948) … precision agriculture, while highlighting the importance of integrating multispectral data and utilizing domain adaptation techniques to enhance early-stage disease detection.
01465|The Role of AI-Integrated Drone Systems in Agricultural Productivity and Sustainable Pest Management
   > and interoperable standards that enable actionable IPM decisions. Key gaps include limited cross-site generalization, scarce reporting of economic indicators (ROI, payback period, and adoption rate), and
01466|Future land use land cover prediction with special emphasis on urbanization and wetlands
   > TerrSet. Landsat satellite images were used to produce LULC map for three different years 2007, 2014 and 2017. Based on these past LULC map, future … LULC condition in 2007. It can also be observed that there was decrease of 6.08%, 28.65% and 0.55% in wetlands, herbaceous wetlands and forest, respectively.
01467|Global retrieval of canopy chlorophyll content from Sentinel-3 OLCI TOA data using a two-step upscaling method integrating physical and machine learni
   > train random forest (RF) models. The RF model demonstrated robust performance with leave-one-site-out cross-validation, yielding an R 2 of 0.92 and RMSE of 0.14 g·m
01468|A Dual-Branch Framework Integrating the Segment Anything Model and Semantic-Aware Network for High-Resolution Cropland Extraction
   > applied to high-resolution cropland extraction, SAM faces limitations in semantic expressiveness and cross-domain adaptability. To address these issues, this study proposes a dual-branch framework integrating
01469|Application of machine learning in python for temporal groundwater level prediction
   > in data-scarce regions to inform sustainable water resource management. However, adaptation to other regions must consider local hydrogeological and climatic conditions. One sentence summary: This
01470|NeRF-LAI: A hybrid method combining neural radiance field and gap-fraction theory for deriving effective leaf area index of corn and soybean using mul
   > [no abstract]
01471|Modeling Seasonal Fire Probability in Thailand: A Machine Learning Approach Using Multiyear Remote Sensing Data
   > provided as interpretable probability maps and the methods can be adapted to future years or augmented with local datasets. Our methodology presents a scalable advancement
01472|The quantification of southern corn leaf blight disease using deep UV fluorescence spectroscopy and autoencoder anomaly detection techniques
   > humid, warm weather conditions. SLB causes production losses to corn producers in different regions of the world such as Latin America, Europe, India, and Africa.
01473|Multi-Year Cropland Mapping Based on Remote Sensing Data: A Case Study for the Khabarovsk Territory, Russia
   > expected in regions with similar cropland structures and crop phenological cycles, including other regions of the Far East.
01474|PINN-AMF: A physics-informed neural network with attention-based multi-source fusion for robust chlorophyll retrieval from UAV hyperspectral imagery
   > [no abstract]
01475|Mapillary based plant distributions of ethnobotanical afforestation.
   > [no term] Abstract: Mapillary is an open-source code base for the use of GPU based Deep Learning for Semantic Segmentation of wild images. We propose the creation of an autonomous drone for
01476|BDSER-InceptionNet: A Novel Method for Near-Infrared Spectroscopy Model Transfer Based on Deep Learning and Balanced Distribution Adaptation
   > Spectroscopy (NIRS) analysis technology faces numerous challenges in industrial applications. Firstly, the generalization capability of models is significantly affected by instrumental heterogeneity, environmental interference, and … making it difficult to achieve effective adaptation across different scenarios. Specifically, data distribution shifts and mismatches in multi-scale features hinder t
01477|Exploiting effective facial patches for robust gender recognition
   > method based on multiple large patches. Several Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) are trained on individual, predefined patches that reflect various image resolutions and partial cropping.
01478|Antioxidant activity of ultrasonic assisted ethanol extract of Ainsliaea acerifolia and prediction of antioxidant activity with machine learning
   > [no term] The antioxidant properties of Ainsliaea acerifolia, a wild edible plant, were examined by ultrasonic-assisted ethanol extraction methods. The primary objective was to optimize the extraction conditions and accurately predict antioxidant
01479|MSOAR-YOLOv10: Multi-Scale Occluded Apple Detection for Enhanced Harvest Robotics
   > complex orchard environments, particularly improving the operational precision of harvesting robots in real-world conditions.
01480|A physics-guided deep learning framework for county-level maize yield estimation in arid irrigated regions
   > deep-sequence models. Under a strict temporal hold-out (2022–2023), PGDL achieved the best generalization (R² = 0.74, RMSE = 1091.9 kg ha⁻¹, MAE = 816.6 kg … versus data-driven-dominant zones. These results demonstrate that the proposed framework improves accuracy, cross-year robustness, and interpretability of county-scale yield mapping in management-intensive arid systems.
01481|Exploring the Use of High-Resolution Satellite Images to Estimate Corn Silage Yield Within Field
   > regressors exhibited superior predictive performance. However, XGBoost performed poorly when applied to unseen fields or years, whereas Extra Tree regressor, followed closely by Random Forest,
01482|An unsupervised domain adaptation regression method in kernel partial least squares subspace embedded with joint statistical and manifold alignment fo
   > [no abstract]
01483|Transfer learning-based comparative study of cnn architectures for automated rice disease detection in Bangladesh
   > training. Additional experiments on potato, Tomato, and corn datasets demonstrated the models' generalizability, though with reduced accuracy in cross-crop classification. Compared with existing works, the proposed VGGNet16 with RMSProp outperformed most
01484|Smart Farming - Precision Agriculture Using ML
   > CCTV surveillance enables 24/7 field monitoring, enhancing security and protecting crops from external threats like wild animals or theft. The system also includes mobile app
01485|Early classification of Alzheimer's disease phenotype based on hippocampal electrophysiology in the TgF344-AD rat model
   > findings provide valuable insights into the early stage effects of AD on different regions of the hippocampus.
01486|Integrating Climate and Satellite Data for Multi-Temporal Pre-Harvest Prediction of Head Rice Yield in Australia
   > up to 16 weeks pre-harvest. The study compared the accuracy of models trained on datasets with climate data alone or paired with vegetative indices using … offers valuable insights into grain quality forecasting, presenting a model adaptable to other regions with accessible climate and satellite data, consequently enhancing farm- and industry-level
01487|Self-supervised maize kernel classification and segmentation for embryo identification
   > model can be efficiently finetuned for both classification and segmentation, indicating good transferability across multiple downstream applications. Segmentation models with SSL-pretrained backbones produce DICE similarity
01488|The potential for nitrate removal during infiltration: Mapping with machine learning informed by field and laboratory experiments
   > capacity to available water for MAR, we combine a map of NRpwith independently simulated hillslope runoff, and find that potential load reduction is highest in
01489|Refining daily precipitation estimates using machine learning and multi-source data in alpine regions with unevenly distributed gauges
   > algorithm for enhancing precipitation in high-altitude mountain areas, which can be flexibly transferred to other regions, different machine learning algorithms, and various hydrometeorological variables. • A precipitation
01490|Optimizing cultivation areas for Salvia leriifolia using advanced spatial prediction and hybrid machine learning algorithms for maximum bioactive comp
   > for future research to explore physiological mechanisms and extend predictive models to other regions and species.
01491|Correlation analysis between active components of Cornus officinalis and inorganic elements in rhizosphere soil and rapid analysis of origin quality b
   > [no abstract]
01492|Evaluating machine learning models and feature selection for reference evapotranspiration estimation in semi-arid regions: a case study in Doukkala, M
   > [no abstract]
01493|Enhancing coconut yield potential: A climate-smart land suitability analysis using machine learning
   > a robust framework for improving coconut cultivation and can be applied to other regions and crops.
01494|Polygenic discrimination of migratory phenotypes in an estuarine forage fish
   > [no term] Abstract Migration is a complex phenotypic trait with some species containing migratory and nonmigratory individuals. Such life history variation may be attributed in part to plasticity, epigenetics, or genetics. Although
01495|Climate change conditions the selection of rust-resistant candidate wild lentil populations for in situ conservation
   > Relatives (CWR) are a valuable source of genetic diversity that can be transferred to commercial crops, so their conservation will become a priority in the
01496|Cross-domain mangrove change detection and ecological response analysis under typhoon disturbance
   > In recent years, global climate change and human activities have significantly degraded mangrove ecosystems. Developing efficient spatio-temporal change detection methods is crucial for assessing mangrove health. In this paper, we propose an automated framework with unsupervised domain adaptation capabilities, combining a Separable Transformer Neural Network with a Residual Stacking … attaining an
01497|Single-cell chromatin accessibility and cis-regulatory element analyses in plants using the scPlantReg platform
   > [no abstract]
01498|Non-invasive diagnosis of nutrient deficiencies in winter wheat and winter rye using UAV-based RGB images
   > lowest (about 50%). The results were similar for winter rye. In the cross-year and cross-cereal species transfer (training on winter wheat, application on winter rye,
01499|An explainable deep learning model for dental caries detection and segmentation
   > [no abstract]
01500|Transcription factors involved in abiotic stress responses in maize (Zea mays L.) and their roles in enhanced productivity in the post genomics era
   > frequent occurrences of both biotic and abiotic stresses have been reported in different regions around the world, and recently, this has become a major threat
01501|Same father, same face: deep-learning reveals paternally-derived signalling of kinship in a wild primate
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Animal faces convey important information such as individual health status 1 or identity 2,3 . Human and nonhuman primates rely on highly heritable facial traits 4,5 to recognize their
01502|Using Bayesian hierarchical models and random forest algorithm for habitat use studies: a case of nest site selection of the crested ibis at regional 
   > low population level, and now it has recovered to over 1,000 individuals in the wild. We built Bayesian hierarchical models to quantify the association between
01503|Nondestructive evaluation of Kiwi hardness by fusion of tactile sensing array and deep learning
   > [no abstract]
01504|Weed image classification with generative AI using latent denoising diffusion probabilistic model and Wiener filtering approach
   > noise robustness compared to conventional denoising methods. • Extensive experimental validation including cross-dataset generalization, t-SNE visualizations, and denoising performance comparisons with multiple baselines. • Significant improvements … diffusion-based image synthesis combined with frequency-aware denoising significantly improves the robustness and generalization of weed classificati
01505|Intelligent Grapevine Disease Detection Using IoT Sensor Network
   > the results obtained from the IoT sensors tested in vineyards located in other regions.
01506|Agri-DSSA: A Dual Self-Supervised Attention Framework for Multisource Crop Health Analysis Using Hyperspectral and Image-Based Benchmarks
   > existing models remain limited by dataset scope, lack of interpretability, and weak cross-domain generalization. To overcome these limitations, this study introduces Agri-DSSA, a novel Dual Self-Supervised … multiple crop species). To ensure statistical rigor and spatial independence, a block-based spatial cross-validation scheme was employed across five independent runs with fixed random seeds. M
01507|Computer Vision for Cover Crop Seed-Mix Detection and Quantification
   > phenotypic assessment, and the detection of moldy or damaged grains. However, in real-world conditions, the overlap and thickness of adhesion of mixed seeds make precise
01508|Revolutionizing Plant Pathogen Conservation: The Past, Present, and Future of AI in Preserving Natural Ecosystems
   > variations, environmental conditions, and real-world challenges. Overcoming real-world challenges involves addressing previously unseen diseases, modeling disease distribution across extensive geographical areas, and managing domain adaptation, which arise from differences in data distributions between the source and target domains. An innovative plant disease identification framework has been est
01509|An annual cropland extent dataset for Africa at 30 m spatial resolution from 2000 to 2022
   > mapping encounters several challenges, including the varying landscape characteristics of cropland across different regions, extended cultivation periods, and limited availability of reference data. This study … final output consists of annual binary crop/non-crop maps from 2000 to 2022. Independent validation samples from numerous third-party sources confirm that the map's accuracy is
01510|Deep learning based genomic breeding of pest-resistant grapevine
   > [no term] Abstract Crop pests have profoundly deleterious effects on crop yield and food security. However, conventional pest control depends heavily on the utilization of insecticides, which develops strong pesticide resistance and
01511|CytoCensus: mapping cell identity and division in tissues and organs using machine learning
   > [no term] Abstract A major challenge in cell and developmental biology is the automated identification and quantitation of cells in complex multilayered tissues. We developed CytoCensus: an easily deployed implementation of supervised
01512|Plant lncRNA-miRNA Interaction Prediction Based on Counterfactual Heterogeneous Graph Attention Network
   > [no abstract]
01513|PhenoSR: Enhancing organ-level phenotyping with super-resolution RGB UAV imagery for large-scale field experiments
   > [no abstract]
01514|Nondestructive Prediction of Rice Seed Viability Using Spectral and Spatial Information Modeling of Visible–Near Infrared Hyperspectral Images
   > of rice seeds. Experimental samples are prepared using seeds harvested in two different years and artificially aged for various periods. Vis-NIR hyperspectral acquisition and germination
01515|Deep Transfer Learning for Lip Reading Based on NASNetMobile Pretrained Model in Wild Dataset
   > [no term] Lip reading is extensively used in visual speech recognition to classify and recognize words by analyzing mouth movements in silent videos. Transfer learning models are often employed to improve performance
01516|Predictive performance of mid-infrared FTIR spectroscopy and machine learning models for soil property estimation in Japan
   > cross-validation approaches: random cross-validation (Random-CV) to simulate interpolation within known conditions and leave-one-prefecture-out cross-validation (LOPO-CV) to assess extrapolation performance across different regions. 1D-CNN outperformed both PLSR and RF in mineralizable nitrogen (Min N)
01517|Using EfficientNet and transfer learning for image-based diagnosis of nutrient deficiencies
   > [no abstract]
01518|Mapping annual irrigation from Landsat imagery and environmental variables across the conterminous United States
   > continuous monitoring of irrigated area over CONUS and are spatially applicable to other regions with similar climate and cropping landscapes.
01519|Deep learning-driven behavioral analysis reveals adaptive responses in Drosophila offspring after long-term parental microplastic exposure
   > effects, but after long-term exposure, offspring larvae showed increased crawling speed and decreased crawling angular velocity, indicating enhanced locomotor ability compared to the control group. … long-term exposure of parental flies to PS-MPs may help offspring adapt to new environments. Our findings not only support the hypothesis of adaptive parental effects,
01520|A Large Scale Joint Analysis of Flowering Time Reveals Independent Temperate Adaptations in Maize
   > days to flowering is a key mechanism in plants for adapting to new environments, and variation in days to flowering drives population structure by limiting … While the North American-European temperate adaption is well studied, this study suggest independent temperate adaptation evolved in the Chinese panel, most likely in China after
01521|Modelling the Unidentified Abortion Burden from Four Infectious Pathogenic Microorganisms in Ewes based on Artificial Neural Networks Approach: The Ep
   > diseases, these characteristics do not represent the prevalence of the disease in different regions. This study predicts the unidentified abortion burden from multi-microorganisms in ewes … wood, with dirt and concrete floors, and bed of straw that remained independently associated with infectious abortion in ewes. Approximately 80% of those respondents did
01522|Bayesian hierarchical modelling for regional crop yield prediction under climate uncertainty
   > components and produced full posterior predictive distributions rather than point forecasts. In leave-one-year-out cross-validation, the BHM achieved RMSE of 0.31 t ha⁻¹ and MAPE of
01523|Estimation of protein content in wheat samples using NIR hyperspectral imaging and 1D-CNN
   > for a wider range of protein content and for wheat cultivated in different regions. Hyperspectral images of 621 wheat samples from five regions in India
01524|Comparative Evaluation of Deep Features and Traditional Classifiers in the Detection of Potato Leaf Diseases
   > classifier complexity is not arbitrary, but structurally linked to the separability and transferability of disease-related visual patterns. Cross-dataset experiments further showed that the proposed framework retained meaningful generalization ability under different visual conditions. The results demonstrate that combining effective deep
01525|Adaptive Normalization Enhances the Generalization of Deep Learning Model in Chest X-Ray Classification
   > algorithmic contribution, but as a practical preprocessing design choice that can enhance cross-dataset robustness and reliability in chest X-ray classification workflows.
01526|BAWSeg: A UAV Multispectral Benchmark for Barley Weed Segmentation
   > SegFormer-B1 baseline by 1.2 mIoU and 1.9 weed IoU. Under cross-plot and cross-year protocols, VISA maintains 71.2% and 69.2% mIoU, respectively. The full BAWSeg benchmark
01527|Design and evaluation of a vision-guided robotic platform with root-zone drilling for targeted weed removal
   > [no abstract]
01528|A multi-omics approach to identify deleterious mutations in plants
   > [no term] Abstract Crops lose genetic variation due to strong founder effects during domestication, accumulating and potentially exposing recessive deleterious alleles. Therefore, identifying those deleterious variants in domesticated varieties and their functional
01529|Soil Moisture Measuring Techniques and Factors Affecting the Moisture Dynamics: A Comprehensive Review
   > [no term] The amount of surface soil moisture (SSM) is a crucial ecohydrological natural resource that regulates important land surface processes. It affects critical land–atmospheric phenomena, including the division of energy and
01530|Mapping Insect-Proof Screened Citrus Orchards Using Sentinel-2 MSl Time-Series Images
   > coverage at 10 m resolution. The effective monitoring of large-scale IPS in other regions can now support the development of local and regional sustainable agricultural
01531|Factors influencing the effectiveness of machine learning algorithms in predicting raw wastewater characteristics: An analysis based on weekly field d
   > in contrast to the high-frequency datasets that dominate existing research. Additionally, data distribution shifts, preprocessing techniques, and splitting strategies were evaluated, with the Smoothness Index
01532|Virtual Power Plants
   > plant (WPP). A virtual power plant (VES) uses energy devices located in different locations in different ways, applying IoT (Internet of Things) technology and helping
01533|Investigating the performance of random oversampling and genetic algorithm integration in meteorological drought forecasting with machine learning
   > suitability for drought estimation tasks in the study area. The flexibility and generalizability of the methods used in the study make them easily applicable in … is recommended to apply these methods with larger data sets and in different regions. The data balancing technique helped the models detect drought patterns more
01534|Enhanced UAV-based SPAD values estimation in tea chrysanthemum: an optimized and interpretable machine learning approach integrating spectral and text
   > rapid, non-destructive SPAD values estimation, yet many existing models suffer from limited generalizability and low interpretability—hindering their practical application across varying conditions and cultivars. To … of approximately 4.3%; RPD = 2.574, RMSE V/C = 1.409), exhibiting optimal generalization. SHAP analysis revealed NGBDI, mSR, and RDTI(MEA 475 , MEA 560 )
01535|Deep learning-based semantic matching of cis-regulatory DNA sequences facilitates the prediction of gene function
   > [no abstract]
01536|Development of a deep learning-assisted multispectral device for non-destructive detection and analysis of nicosulfuron stress in field maize
   > [no abstract]
01537|A machine learning workflow for classifying and predicting the annual climatic status of cotton in Xinjiang, China
   > to identify the most effective model for classifying and predicting ACS in different regions. Using cotton in Xinjiang as a case study, SVM-XGBoost and SVM-SVR
01538|Precision editing without footprints: Advancing transgene-free systems in plants
   > for AI-driven CRISPR enzyme optimization and prediction. ● Reveals species-specific principles through cross-species regeneration module comparison. ● Provides a roadmap for trait enhancement and global
01539|Operational Wheat-Yield Estimation in the Eastern Mediterranean Using Multi-Temporal Sentinel-2 Imagery and Explainable Machine Learning
   > with vegetation indices (Sentinel+Indices, SI), and vegetation indices only (Indices-only, IO). Model generalization was assessed through a strict Leave-One-Field-Out (LOFO) cross-validation protocol, and the method of SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) was
01540|Identification of Novel Regulators of Leaf Senescence Using a Deep Learning Model
   > [no term] Deep learning has emerged as a powerful tool for investigating intricate biological processes in plants by harnessing the potential of large-scale data. Gene regulation is a complex process that transcription
01541|Efficient Adaptive Incremental Learning for Fruit and Vegetable Classification
   > dealing with changes related to variety, deep learning models need to be retrained on the entire updated dataset. The retraining process is time-consuming and inefficient, … cause the ‘catastrophic forgetting’ problem. In response to this challenge, the Adversarial Domain Adaptation Class Incremental Learning (ADA-CIL) method is introduced. This approach employs adversarial domain adaptation techn
01542|Groundwater Potential Mapping Using Machine Learning Techniques: Current Trends and Future Perspectives
   > hybrid models. The review evaluates key methodological aspects, including input parameter selection, data partitioning, integration with GIS and remote sensing, and model justification techniques. It … include explainable artificial intelligence, uncertainty quantification, multi-source data integration, and improved model transferability. This review provides a comprehensive reference for advanci
01543|Analysis of Water Source Conservation Driving Factors Based on Machine Learning
   > using the InVEST model, the changing trends of water retention capacity in different regions and at various time scales were analyzed. Based on this, the … From 2003 to 2023, the water conservation capacity first increased and then decreased, and spatially, the water conservation capacity of the mountainous area in the
01544|Cross-temporal domain generalization approach combined with self-organizing-maps for classifying MODIS time series data
   > samples for land use land cover (LULC) classification by proposing a cross-temporal Domain Generalization (DG) approach. A classification model trained on the 2019/2020 crop year was applied to classify 18 crop years … Attention Encoder (L-TAE). The DG performance of each algorithm was evaluated using independent samples from the 2016/2017, 2020/2021 and 2021/2022 crop years. RF achieved an
01545|Estimating sugarcane yield and its components using unoccupied aerial systems (UAS)-based high throughput phenotyping (HTP)
   > and CVs5), indicating the challenge of using a prediction model applied to new environments.
01546|An integrated approach of remote sensing and geospatial analysis for modeling and predicting the impacts of climate change on food security
   > climate changes as well as trends in human population growth and environmental degradation, the need for timely agricultural information continues to rise. This study analyzes … in LST, evapotranspiration, cloud ratio, and soil salinity is associated with the decrease in AL. Additionally, AL decreases with a decreasing in precipitation, sunny days, soil moisture, and groundwater quality. It was al
01547|Projected Shifts in Colombian Sweet Potato Germplasm Under Climate Change
   > [no term] Extreme climate events—such as heatwaves, floods, and droughts—are increasingly affecting ecosystems, with the global average temperature projected to rise by up to 3 °C (IPCC, 2023) due to anthropogenic greenhouse
01548|Probabilistic prediction system based on quantile deep learning model and multi-level information recognition
   > [no abstract]
01549|Vulnerability of Parkia biglobosa, Vitellaria paradoxa and Vitex doniana to climate change: wild indigenous agroforestry species in Benin
   > [no abstract]
01550|Challenges in Bringing Pangenome Research Into Breeding: A Case Study in Rice
   > [no term] Crop breeding has entered the pangenomics era, unlocking a far more comprehensive view of genetic diversity than a single reference genome can capture. In rice (Oryza sativa), a staple crop
01551|Association mapping reveals candidate loci for resistance and anaemic response to an emerging temperature‐driven parasitic disease in a wild salmonid 
   > [no term] Even though parasitic infections are often costly or deadly for the host, we know very little which genes influence parasite susceptibility and disease severity. Proliferative kidney disease is an emerging
01552|Zero-shot learning for phenotyping of maize cob geometric traits in diverse environments
   > field applications. To overcome limitations in data dependency, high costs, and model generalization, this study explores zero-shot learning (ZSL) framework that integrates Grounding DINO and … geometric trait extraction and yield estimation. This work provides a computationally efficient, generalizable solution that bridges laboratory precision with field applicability in maize phenomics.
01553|Predicting brain-regional gene regulatory networks from multi-omics for Alzheimer’s disease phenotypes and Covid-19 severity
   > sites (TFBSs) on regulatory elements to target genes. Comparative network analyses revealed cross-region-conserved and region-specific regulatory networks, in which many immunological genes are present. Furthermore, … learning analysis prioritized 36 AD–Covid candidate genes for predicting Covid severity. Our independent validation analyses found that these genes outperform known genes for classif
01554|A GIS-Driven, Machine Learning-Enhanced Framework for Adaptive Land Bonitation
   > that couples classical BC computation with machine learning-based temporal forecasting and spatial generalization. Specifically, we apply deep learning models (LSTM, GRU, and CNN) to predict … CNN (R2=0.57). While the case study focuses on precipitation, the framework is generalizable to other BC indicators and regions. This integration of forecasting, spatial generalization, and classical land ev
01555|A Decade of Deep Learning in Remote Sensing: A Systematic Review of Reviews
   > network-dominated pipelines towards transformer-based and FM architectures, persistent challenges in data scarcity, domain generalization, benchmark fragmentation and computational efficiency continue to constrain operational deployment. This
01556|Structured multimodal deep learning improves genomic prediction in future environments
   > networks. SINN dissects phenotype prediction into isolated component modeling tasks, revealing poor generalization of learned representations to new environments as the main limitation for prediction of genotype-by-environment interactions and overall … modern deep learning, SINN enables accurate, modular and scalable genomic prediction in new environments.
01557|Analysing agricultural distress in the eastern plateau of West Bengal's Rarh Region: integrating hybrid deep ensemble and GIS-based soft computing
   > agrarian practices. Farmers face chronic stress from droughts, temperature extremes, and land degradation. Without precise identification of the most vulnerable zones, adaptation and resource allocation … proneness, changes in maximum temperatures, the dimensionless precipitation anomaly index, and land degradation. The multi-layer perceptron neural network (MLPNN) was used as a benchmark model,
01558|The AMG model coupled with Rock-Eval® analysis accurately predicts cropland soil organic carbon dynamics in the Tuojiang River Basin, Southwest China
   > after optimizing the potential mineralization rate (k0) of SOC stock following a leave-one-site-out cross-validation based on 24 long-term field experiments (LTEs) in the Southwest of
01559|High-Throughput Measurements of Stem Characteristics to Estimate Ear Density and Above-Ground Biomass
   > traits that characterize wheat genotypes. Two experiments were carried out in two different sites where several genotypes were grown under contrasted irrigation and nitrogen treatments.
01560|Wildwatch: AI-powered wildlife guardianship system using machine learning
   > [no abstract]
01561|Assessing the Spatial–Temporal Pattern of Spring Maize Drought in Northeast China Using an Optimised Remote Sensing Index
   > single index does not reflect the severity and extent of drought in different regions. This research utilised the random forest (RF) model for screening remote
01562|A multicomponent approach to studying cultural propensities during foraging in the wild
   > involving behaviour, ecology, and physiology to accelerate the study of cultural propensities in the wild. We propose as the first component the use of field
01563|Enhancing transferability of foliar trait retrieval models: A comparative analysis of transfer learning strategies and domain shift characterization
   > [no abstract]
01564|Prediction of essential oil content in C. sintoc Leaves based on the direction of vegetation slope in Mount Ciremai National Park using ANFIS Artifici
   > [no term] C. sintoc is a plant that has a high essential oil content. Essential oils have many health benefits. Mount Ciremai National Park is an area that has abundant vegetation, especially
01565|An Overview on Ethnopharmacology of Different Medicinal Plants of Odisha State of India in the Management of Diabetes Mellitus
   > of the synthetic drugs were discovered from the plant source out of different regions of the world to meet the demand. Several medicinal plants like
01566|Machine and deep learning for sentinel-based land use and land cover change detection: a systematic review and future outlook
   > [no abstract]
01567|Optimizing soybean breeding: High-throughput phenotyping for stink bug resistance and high yields
   > low for TOL and LR. Integrating multiple flights modestly improved accuracy, whereas cross-season predictions were unreliable. Nonetheless, indices such as VARI_P25 provided useful cross-season correlations for HSW and TOL, enabling early screening of less promising lines. … tree–based models, though further studies are needed to validate their role. ● Cross-season predictions remain challenging, 
01568|Review of Machine Learning Techniques for Identifying Nutrient Deficiencies in Okra Leaves: Progress and Future Prospects
   > system leverages a diverse dataset of leaf images to ensure reliability under real-world conditions. This approach offers a scalable and efficient tool for supporting farmers
01569|Adaptive Multimodal Deep Networks for Climate Change Impact Prediction on Agriculture
   > [no abstract]
01570|Next-Generation Strategies for Developing and Commercializing Rust-Resistant Wheat through High-Throughput Phenotyping and Genomic Innovations
   > [no term] Wheat rusts are the most important diseases leading to substantial yield losses. Early and precise detection of wheat rusts for early mitigation and disease control is imperative. This review summarizes
01571|Diagnosis of nitrogen nutrition in winter wheat across years based on multi-source remote sensing data from unmanned aerial vehicles
   > a key parameter for assessing crop nitrogen status. However, studies focusing on cross-year NNI prediction for the same growth stages remain limited. In this study, … Boosting (XGBoost), K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), and Extremely Randomized Trees (ExtraTree)—were used for cross-year NNI prediction and spatial distribution mapping. Results showed that the VIs at
01572|Prediction of the antioxidant capacity of maize (Zea mays) hybrids using mass fingerprinting and data mining
   > of Mexico - highlands, subtropics and tropics - were evaluated. For the different locations, phytochemical traits, which are relevant for nutraceutical effects, and the antioxidative
01573|Water quality index modelling and its application on artificial intelligence (AI) in conjunction with machine learning (ML) methodologies for mapping 
   > in river water systems an urgent issue. The main causes of this decrease include inappropriate home waste disposal practices, the release of partially or completely … ArcGIS 10.5 software. For this purpose, water samples were collected from 16 different locations across the stretch and 21 parameters were analysed for a time
01574|Inversion of Leaf Chlorophyll Content in Different Growth Periods of Maize Based on Multi-Source Data from “Sky–Space–Ground”
   > outstanding versatility, can achieve rapid, non-destructive, and precise crop growth monitoring in different regions and for various crop types, demonstrating broad application prospects and significant
01575|ResNet-ViT-SVM: A new hybrid architecture proposal and experimental comparisons on date fruit
   > [no abstract]
01576|Combining stable isotope analysis and machine learning for geographical origin tracing of protected geographical indication (PGI) Wuchang rice
   > [no abstract]
01577|Soil organic carbon and total nitrogen stocks related to land use and basic environmental properties − assessment of soil carbon sequestration potenti
   > [no term] • Forests show the highest soil C and N stocks, followed by grasslands and croplands. • Soil C and N stocks for 0.5 m depth are 1.8–2.1 higher than the
01578|Integrating Metabolomics and Machine Learning to Analyze Chemical Markers and Ecological Regulatory Mechanisms of Geographical Differentiation in Thes
   > exhibited significantly higher antioxidant activity (DPPH and hydroxyl radical scavenging rates) than other regions, strongly correlating with stable low-temperature environments (annual mean temperature) and precipitation
01579|Social disparities in the first wave of COVID-19 infections in Germany: A county-scale explainable machine learning approach
   > education”, “Income”, “Settlement structure and environment”, “Health care”, “(structural) Poverty”, “Interrelationship with other regions”, and “Geography”. We trained gradient boosting models to predict the age-standardized
01580|Mapping pan-European land cover using Landsat spectral-temporal metrics and the European LUCAS survey
   > learning of spectral-temporal metrics, may also serve as a reference case for other regions. The pan-European land cover map for 2015 developed in this study
01581|Potential of constructing all‐encompassing soil–plant‐atmosphere‐continuum stations and datasets from meteorological, flux, soil moisture station netw
   > promoting comprehensive observational systems like Europe's Integrated Carbon Observation System (ICOS) in other regions, establishing a unified management framework and coordinating the upgrading of existing
01582|Crop Type Mapping in an Irrigation District Using Multi-Source Remote Sensing and LSTM-Based Time Series Analysis
   > parcel-scale workflow for crop type mapping in fragmented irrigation districts, while its transferability across years and regions still requires further validation.
01583|Swin-YOLO-SAM: a hybrid Transformer-based framework integrating Swin Transformer, YOLOv12, and SAM-2.1 for automated identification and segmentation o
   > are not scalable and depend heavily on classical models that do not generalize readily to real-world conditions. Recent improvements in deep learning over the last two decades, particularly
01584|An efficient machine-learning framework for predicting protein post-translational modification sites
   > contemporary algorithms, including XGBoost and CatBoostimplementations through mutual information-based feature selection optimization. Cross-species validation on diverse organisms including, human, parasite , and rice achieved improved
01585|AI-Based Smart Animal Detection and Crop Protection System Using Sensors and Sound Alert Mechanism
   > biggest problems farmers confront. These animal incursions result in serious crop damage, decreased agricultural output, and monetary losses for producers. Conventional crop protection techniques like
01586|A shape-attention Pivot-Net for identifying central pivot irrigation systems from satellite images using a cloud computing platform: an application in
   > neural networks (CNNs) are usually biased toward color and texture features, a spatial transferable and accurate CPIS identification model is lacking owing to previous model
01587|Estimation of NO 2 emission strengths over Riyadh and Madrid from space from a combination of wind-assigned anomalies and a machine learning technique
   > are located. Additionally, due to the COVID-19 lockdowns, the NO 2 emissions decreased by 21 % in March–June 2020 in Riyadh compared with the same … complicated emission sources and topography, and specific NO 2 decay times in different regions and seasons should be taken into account. These impacting factors should
01588|UAV-assisted deep learning to support results-based agri-environmental schemes: Facilitating Eco-Scheme 5 implementation in Germany
   > UAV training dataset could enhance model performance on UAV imagery, hypothesizing robust generalization across these image domains. The Baseline model, trained exclusively on UAV imagery, … imbalance, particularly affecting species with fewer instances. In contrast, the Enhanced model, trained on UAV imagery enriched with ground-based data, achieved a significantly higher AP
01589|Detection of Spider Mites on Labrador Beans through Machine Learning Approaches Using Custom Datasets
   > approach for plant disease detection, harnessing RGB and NIR data collected in real-world conditions through a JAI FS-1600D-10GE camera to build an RGBN dataset. A
01590|Deep learning to extract the meteorological by-catch of wildlife cameras
   > [no term] Abstract Microclimate – proximal climatic variation at scales of meters and minutes – can exacerbate or mitigate the impacts of climate change on biodiversity. However, most microclimate studies are temperature-centric,
01591|Signal Fidelity Index-aware calibration for addressing distributional shift in predictive modeling across heterogeneous real-world data
   > Machine learning models trained on real-world data (RWD) often experience performance degradation when deployed across different settings due to distributional shift. However, a fundamental but under-explored factor contributing to this degradation is the decay of diagnostic signals: systematic variability in diagnostic quality and … model performance compared to established calibration methods, w
01592|Mid-season empirical cotton yield forecasts at fine resolutions using large yield mapping datasets and diverse spatial covariates
   > in accuracy as the spatial resolution of predictions became coarser. Using a leave-one-year-out cross-validation, cotton yield could be forecasted to an accuracy of 0.42 Lin's
01593|The dietary patterns of water deer recently rediscovered in Northeast China exhibit remarkable similarities to those observed in other regions
   > dietary patterns observed in this study align closely with those reported in other regions, reflecting species-specific foraging characteristics and further validating the reliability of deep
01594|A machine learning-enabled approach to assess trade-offs between growth and stress tolerance in Pooideae grasses following domestication
   > leaf length, a trade-off occurs in development; wild species exhibit a smaller decrease in the elongation zone size under drought compared with domesticated species. This
01595|Estimating nitrogen stress and its impact on crop yield using advanced remote sensing approach: A case study of Gezira irrigation scheme, Sudan
   > (RS) methods, using regression models and indices like NDVI, face challenges in transferability across time and space. This study aims to enhance in-season N concentration … were found in the crop N content and biomass estimation. GPR models, trained on PROSAIL-PRO, effectively predict above ground N content and biomass. Validation against
01596|Fostering plant protection against certain bacterial diseases through quorum-sensing signal molecules: a critical review
   > for deliberate future research outcomes. Sustainable agricultural practices are envisaged for successful lab-to-field authentic field trials and large-scale applicability across the globe. Potential technical limitations,
01597|Leveraging process-based models to improve index crop insurance design
   > (Nguyen-Huy et al., 2024).A crop model's predictive capability is validated by utilizing independent datasets that were not used during calibration (Afshar et al., 2021). This provides a more objective evaluation of the model's ability to generalize and accurately simulate crop performance under novel conditions (Kapphan et al., 2012). … used validation approach involves evaluating the model's per
01598|Phenotyping of Histology Imaging Data with Histomics
   > pathology models encode tissue morphology within latent representations, limiting interpretability, reproducibility, and generalization. This review positions histomics as an intermediate phenotype representation layer linking histological … systematically examined. Key challenges, including segmentation dependence, feature instability, aggregation variability, and domain shift, are critically ana
01599|Mapping Endangered Plant Distributions, Species Richness, and Climate Refugia Under SSP Climate Scenarios in South Korea
   > [no term] Climate change significantly threatens the survival and distribution of endangered plants. This study quantified current and future patterns of habitat suitability and species richness for legally protected vascular plants in
01600|Recursive Multi-Relational Graph Convolutional Network for Automatic Photo Selection
   > aggregates the output of CIGM with multi-scale local features via the proposed Cross-domain Fusing Gate (CFG) to boost the discriminative ability. Besides, we formulate four
01601|Patch strategy for deep face recognition
   > system achieves comparable performance with other state‐of‐the‐art methods on the labelled faces in the wild and YouTube face verification tasks. To ensure the reproducibility, the
01602|Navigating ethics in wireless sensor networks for sustainable agriculture
   > available (Bayih et al., 2022). Dust, humidity, and temperature fluctuations accelerate sensor degradation, causing frequent faults and unreliable data. For example, a soil moisture probe … like land tenure, credit access, and local practices, are rarely captured, ignoring real-world conditions and exacerbating inequalities. Algorithmic bias is evident when systems favor specific
01603|FSEA: Incorporating domain-specific prior knowledge for few-shot weed detection
   > provides a fundamental methodology for rapid adaptation of weed detection systems to new environments and species, making automated weed management more practical and accessible for
01604|Incremental learning with dynamic memory replay for crop-disease classification across diverse environments
   > [no abstract]
01605|Evaluation of environmental factors influencing blood orange (Citrus sinensis cv. Tarocco) fruit quality using random forest and PLS-SEM
   > [no abstract]
01606|Droughts, floods, and grain yield: Exploring the association between well-facilitated farmland and disaster-resistant capacity in China
   > [no abstract]
01607|A 30m resolution annual cropland extent dataset of Africa in recent decades of the 21st century
   > mapping encounters several challenges, including the varying landscape characteristics of cropland across different regions, extended cultivation periods, and the limited availability of reference data. The … final output consists of annual binary Crop/Non-Crop maps from 2000 to 2022. Independent validation samples from numerous third-party sources confirm that the map’s accuracy is
01608|Domain Adaptive and Generalizable Network Architectures and Training Strategies for Semantic Image Segmentation
   > Unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) and domain generalization (DG) enable machine learning models trained on a source domain to perform well on unlabeled or even unseen target domains. As previous UDA&DG semantic segmentation methods are mostly based on outdated … It is enabled by three training strategies to avoid overfitting to the source domain: While (1) Rare Class Sampling mitigates the bias
01609|Consistency and specificity of soil and microbial responses among crops to mulching practices in semi-arid rainfed agroecosystems in China
   > [no abstract]
01610|Predicting gross primary productivity and PsnNet over a mixed ecosystem under tropical seasonal variability: a comparative study between different mac
   > in all three correlation models. However, Landsat 8 OLI band reflectances in different regions of the electromagnetic spectrum have gained importance as best predictors during
01611|In-season forecasting of within-field grain yield from Sentinel-2 time series data
   > a relative RMSE of 7.60%. Although the forecasting accuracy of the models decreased when predicting yield for the unseen years, still satisfactory results were obtained: RMSE = 0.97 t/ha, relative RMSE
01612|RGB imaging-based evaluation of waterlogging tolerance in cultivated and wild chrysanthemums
   > [no term] Waterlogging is a major stress that impacts the chrysanthemum industry. Large-scale germplasm screening for identifying waterlogging-tolerant resources in a quick and accurate manner is essential for developing new cultivars with
01613|Harnessing Machine Learning to Uncover Hidden Patterns in Azole-Resistant CYP51/ERG11 Proteins
   > [no term] Fungal resistance is a public health concern due to the limited availability of antifungal resources and the complexities associated with treating persistent fungal infections. Azoles are thus far the primary
01614|Predicting Groundwater Levels Using Advanced Deep Learning Models: A Case Study of Raipur, India
   > [no abstract]
01615|Interpretable machine learning of SPAC system via a mechanism-assisted gaussian process group: Representation of the system mechanism by data
   > [no abstract]
01616|Plug-and-play high-frequency feature enhancement for plant image super-resolution
   > vital for phenotyping, disease monitoring, and precision agriculture. However, image acquisition in real-world conditions is frequently limited by sensor resolution, cost, and environmental noise, resulting
01617|Mapping the Depth-to-Soil pH Constraint, and the Relationship with Cotton and Grain Yield at the Within-Field Scale
   > and a Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) of 0.47–0.51 when testing with leave-one-site-out cross-validation. Approximately 77% of the farm was found to be constrained by
01618|Haplotype‑resolved comparison of transcription factor superfamilies between wild and cultivated autotetraploid green jujube and prioritization of cand
   > [no term] A framework beyond single-reference genomes is needed to understand transcription factor evolution. This study employed an integrated haplotype‑resolved genomes-transcriptome atlas-machine learning to characterize the transcription factors of autotetraploid green jujube
01619|ADFSNet: An Adaptive Domain Feature Separation Network for the Classification of Wheat Seed Using Hyperspectral Images
   > vary due to variations in climate, soil, and other environmental factors across different years. Consequently, the present classification model is no longer adequate for accurately … adaptive domain feature separation (ADFS) network that utilizes hyperspectral imaging techniques for cross-year classification of wheat seed varieties. The primary objective is to improve the generalization ability of
01620|Machine Learning Approaches for Assessing Avocado Alternate Bearing Using Sentinel-2 and Climate Variables—A Case Study in Limpopo, South Africa
   > algorithms—Random Forest, XGBoost, CATBoost, LightGBM, and TabPFN—were trained and tested using a Leave-One-Year-Out (LOYO) approach. Results showed that VPD, Tmin, and Tmax during the flowering … highest predictive accuracy (Accuracy = 0.88; AUC = 0.95) and strongest temporal generalization. Spectral gradients between flowering and early fruit drop were lower during “on”
01621|Mandrill mothers associate with infants who look like their own offspring using phenotype matching
   > that infants sired by the same father resemble each other the most, independently of their age, sex or maternal origin, extending previous results to the
01622|Metabolomics for plant breeding: knowledge without adoption
   > metabolomic selection index calibrated in one environment may rank genotypes differently in another, precisely the kind of instability that breeders have spent decades learning to … profiles serve as training phenotypes for genomic prediction models? Should they constitute independent selection indices weighted alongside genomic estimated breeding values? Should they function as
01623|A Multimodal Deep Learning Approach for Soil Moisture Downscaling Using Remote Sensing and Weather Data
   > provided accurate SM estimates over time in withheld years; (b) MMNet demonstrated spatial transferability, capturing SM dynamics in regions with sparse or no in situ … snapshot and time‐series data was crucial for maintaining the model's accuracy and generalizability across diverse scenarios. The downscaled SM maps demonstrated its potential for producing
01624|Advances in deep learning for bacterial image segmentation in optical microscopy
   > feature extraction with physics-informed postprocessing. Despite progress, challenges persist in computational efficiency, cross-species generalizability, and integration with multimodal experimental workflows. Future progress will depend on improving
01625|Machine Learning‐Driven Screening of Promising Mutants in Nilgirianthus ciliatus Callus Cultures for Enhanced Phytochemicals Production
   > Perceptron (MLP), Random Forest (RF), and Light Gradient Boosting Machine (LightGBM), were trained on experimental datasets to predict key growth and metabolite parameters. The optimized
01626|Non-destructive estimation of SPAD and biomass in Lamiophlomis rotata using hyperspectral imaging and deep learning with DRSA-CARS feature selection
   > [no term] Introduction Monitoring the growth status and aboveground biomass of wild and cultivated medicinal herbs remains a persistent challenge in precision agriculture. Methods In this study, we developed machine learning and
01627|Spatial prediction of wild boar distribution in Thailand applications for African swine fever prevention and control
   > [no term] African swine fever (ASF) has spread to many Southeast Asian countries, affecting domestic pig farms and wild boars. This is especially prevalent in areas where human settlements, domestic animals, and
01628|Integrating rational design and machine learning to engineer a novel plastic depolymerase to break down PBAT-based mulch film for sustainable recyclin
   > Biodegradable polybutylene adipate terephthalate (PBAT) represents a promising alternative to conventional polyolefins and … adoption in packaging, agricultural mulch films, and diverse industrial applications. Despite its biodegradable classification, PBAT's intrinsically low biodegradation efficiency in natural environments caused persistent ecological contamination. A critical challenge in addr
01629|Deep Behavioral Phenotyping of Mouse Autism Models using Open-Field Behavior
   > took the form of maintained ambling, turning, and locomotion, and an overall decrease in grooming. Adaptation in Cntnap2 knockout mice more broadly resembled that of
01630|High risk glioblastoma cells revealed by machine learning and single cell signaling profiles
   > glioblastomas. RAPID identified and characterized multiple biologically distinct tumor cell subsets that independently and continuously stratified patient outcome. RAPID is broadly applicable for single cell
01631|Powerful and interpretable behavioural features for quantitative phenotyping of C. elegans
   > [no term] Abstract Behaviour is a sensitive and integrative readout of nervous system function and therefore an attractive measure for assessing the effects of mutation or drug treatment on animals. Video data
01632|A Comprehensive Review on Multi-Class Recognition of Soybean Leaf Diseases
   > algorithms. Special emphasis is placed on exploring the potential of transfer learning, domain adaptation, and the integration of spectral imaging and remote sensing technologies for
01633|Linked machine learning classifiers improve species classification of fungi when using error-prone long-reads on extended metabarcodes
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Background The increased usage of error-prone long-read sequencing for metabarcoding of fungi has not been matched with adequate public databases and concomitant analysis approaches. We address this gap and
01634|Detection of Unknown-Unknowns in Human-in-Loop Human-in-Plant Safety Critical Systems
   > maneuvering characteristics augmentation systems (MCASs)—demonstrates our framework's efficacy in preempting unsafe data distribution shifts due to unknown-unknowns. This methodology not only advances unknown-unknown error detection
01635|Application of Artificial Intelligence Technology in Plant MicroRNA Research: Progress, Challenges, and Prospects
   > different evaluation contexts. We analyze applications across miRNA identification, target prediction with degradome validation, miRNA-lncRNA interactions, and ceRNA networks. Critical assessment reveals that degradome data capture mixed RNA fragments from multiple sources beyond miRNA cleavage, requiring … severe data imbalance (positive to negative ratios of 1:100 to 1:10,000), limited cross-spe
01636|DFYP: A Dynamic Fusion Framework With Spectral Channel Attention and Adaptive Operator Learning for Crop Yield Prediction
   > agricultural conditions. Existing methods often suffer from limited spatial modeling capacity, weak generalization across crop types and years. To address these challenges, we propose a … models local spatial details and global contextual information to support cross-resolution and cross-crop generalization. Extensive experiments on multiyear datasets, Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer
01637|Limitations of phenomic prediction for evaluating wheat stem sawfly resistance in wheat breeding programs
   > ( r = 0.194). Predicting traits based on spectral data in a new environment was poor for both stem solidness ( r = 0.02–0.38) and
01638|Klasifikasi Citra Tanaman Perdu Liar Berkhasiat Obat Menggunakan Jaringan Syaraf Tiruan Radial Basis Function
   > [no term] Wild plants or what are usually called weeds are plants that are considered harmful because they grow in unwanted places. But it turns out that some wild plants have many
01639|Genetic markers of olive fruit weight selected to be used in breeding experiments
   > [no term] Olive fruit weight is a crucial trait to consider in olive breeding programs due to its impact on final yield and its relevance for mechanical harvesting and fruit processing. Although
01640|PTF-Vāc: An explainable and generative deep co-learning encoder–decoder system for ab initio discovery of plant transcription factor binding sites
   > (TFBSs) and their motifs in plants poses significant challenges due to high cross-species variability. The interactions between TFs and their binding sites are highly specific … accurate to discover these binding sites in plants. They fail to capture cross-species variability, interdependence between TF structures and corresponding TFBSs, and the context specificity
01641|Improved prediction of winter wheat yield at regional scale with limited ground samples by unmanned aerial vehicle and satellite synergy
   > [no abstract]
01642|PTF-Vāc: An explainable and generative deep co-learning encoders-decoders system for ab-initio discovery of plant transcription factor binding sites
   > (TFBS) and their motifs in plants pose significant challenges due to high cross-species variability. The interaction between TFs and their binding sites is highly specific … to discover these binding sites in plants. They fail to capture the cross-species variability, interdependence between TF structure and its TFBS, and context specificity of
01643|A Comprehensive Review of Disease Detection Techniques for Tomato Leaves
   > foundational understanding. The review also identifies critical research gaps, particularly concerning the generalizability of solutions to real-world conditions and the necessity for computational efficiency in field applications. Organized by
01644|Biome stability in South America over the last 30 kyr: Inferences from long‐term vegetation dynamics and habitat modelling
   > climate was predicted to shift a grid cell from one biome to another. We compared our model‐based stability map with empirical estimates from selected pollen … and regional vegetation dynamics. Four scenarios emerged according to the way forest distribution shifted during a climate change. Each scenario related to specific regional features
01645|Balancing Accuracy and Computational Efficiency: A Faster R-CNN with Foreground-Background Segmentation-Based Spatial Attention Mechanism for Wild Pla
   > representative wild plants from the PlantCLEF 2015 dataset. Ablation experiments and multi-dataset generalization tests show that ULS-FRCN significantly outperforms the baseline model in terms of
01646|A Multi-Class Crop Field Identification Method Based on Semantic–SAM Fusion and UAV RGB Imagery
   > Semantic–SAM versions on the same-region test set, and further tested their spatial generalization ability on the different-region test set. The results showed that the Semantic–SAM … different-region test set, the DeepLabv3+-based framework showed the largest gain in spatial generalization, with mIoU increasing from 67.22% to 73.45% under point-box prompts. Overall, the
01647|Integrative Analysis of Histological Textures and Lymphocyte Infiltration in Renal Cell Carcinoma using Deep Learning
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Evaluating tissue architecture from routine hematoxylin and eosin-stained (H&E) slides is prone to subjectivity and sampling bias. Here, we extensively annotated ∼40,000 images of five tissue texture types and
01648|Theoretical Concepts of Photocatalysis
   > [no abstract]
01649|A Cubesat enabled Spatio-Temporal Enhancement Method (CESTEM) utilizing Planet, Landsat and MODIS data
   > [no abstract]
01650|A Machine Learning Based Approach for Similarity Search on Biodiversity Knowledge Graphs
   > [no term] Mass biodiversity data from scientific collections will be provided by world-wide digitization efforts like iDigBio in the U.S and DiSSCo in Europe. This opens up an increasing amount of data
01651|Beyond the Visual Spectrum: From RGB-Based Learning to Hyperspectral Intelligence for Plant Disease Detection—Challenges and Opportunities
   > mechanisms and, most recently, vision transformers, which have achieved greater robustness to real-world conditions. There is currently a major and consistent "lab-to-field" performance gap. A critical analysis of various studies reveals a persistent and
01652|Machine Learning Approaches for Soil Image Classification: A Systematic Review
   > [no term] Classification of soil images is a universal problemThe world’s population is rapidly increasing, and so is the need for food. Farmers’ traditional techniques are insufficient to fulfil increasing demand, causing
01653|Quantification of adulteration in Bangladeshi honey varieties using UV-vis-NIR spectroscopy and SHAP-guided machine learning
   > [no term] Honey adulteration is a persistent global issue demanding rapid, accurate, and transparent analytical solutions. Machine learning (ML) coupled with spectroscopy offers a rapid solution for detecting honey adulteration, but the
01654|AI-Enabled Efficient and Safe Food Supply Chain
   > Auto-Encoders and Attention mechanisms, Latent Variable extraction and clustering, as well as Domain Adaptation. Three experimental studies are presented, illustrating the ability of these AI
01655|Compartment-specific core microbiomes and functions in rice
   > [no abstract]
01656|A phloem‐based defense mechanism linked to elevated riboflavin levels in wild tomato Solanum chmielewskii impedes whitefly nymphal development
   > Solanum chmielewskii LA1840, which lacks trichome‐based resistance, nymphal development is delayed and decreased compared with a cultivated tomato. Here, we show that the resistance observed
01657|Deep Learning Tools to Support Deforestation Monitoring in the Ivory Coast Using Sar and Optical Satellite Imagery
   > [no abstract]
01658|Enabling country-scale land cover mapping with meter-resolution satellite imagery
   > complex land cover patterns, the costly training sample collections, and the severe distribution shifts of satellite imageries caused by, e.g., geographical differences or acquisition conditions, … artificial-constructed, agricultural, and natural classes. In addition, we propose a deep-learning-based unsupervised domain adaptation approach that can transfer classification models trained on labele
01659|A global geospatial analysis to evaluate the impact of biochar on maize yield
   > Asia, and parts of Europe show low potential or even maize yield decreases. The model was also validated by comparing the results with 8 field … optimising biomass utilisation pathways, as it predicts the impact of biochar in different regions. Consequently, policy frameworks can be tailored to encourage biochar use in
01660|Air quality forecasting based on machine and deep learning models: an IoT application
   > the available dataset. In this study, real-time data is collected from 10 different locations based on an IoT system, which is developed locally for a … dataset. Two objects, particulate PM2.5, and gasoline Ammonia are considered for four different locations for forecasting. Due to several issues such that electricity, Wi-Fi, sensor
01661|Application of Feature Selection Algorithms to Select Elements that Distinguish Regional Differences in Chinese Grown Winter Jujube Fruit (Zizyphus ju
   > [no abstract]
01662|RTCNet: A Robust Hybrid Deep Learning Model for Soil Property Prediction Under Noisy Conditions
   > inherent in soil properties, compounded by the prevalence of noisy data in real-world conditions, continues to pose significant modeling challenges.To address these issues, a robust … RTCNet consistently maintained stable performance, whereas the comparative models exhibited significant performance degradation.These findings underscore RTCNet's superior resilience and adaptability, affirming its u
01663|Estimation of Potato Growth Parameters Under Limited Field Data Availability by Integrating Few-Shot Learning and Multi-Task Learning
   > parameters, the limited availability of field data often compromises model accuracy and generalizability, impeding large-scale regional applications. This study proposes a novel deep learning model … architectures, the MTL-MMOE model exhibited superior stability and robustness in multi-task learning. Independent spatiotemporal validation further confirmed the potential of MTL-MMOE in estimating LA
01664|Advancing mango leaf variant identification with a robust multi-layer perceptron model
   > of mango leaves, has been curated and augmented to enhance robustness in real-world conditions. To validate the model, WaveVisionNet is evaluated on both the publicly
01665|Chromatin accessibility dynamics and transcriptional regulatory networks underlying the primary nitrogen response in rice roots
   > genes in patterns opposite to LBD-regulated genes, suggesting a complex regulatory interplay. Cross-species comparisons with Arabidopsis highlighted the conserved N-responsive regulatory roles of these hub
01666|PREDICTING AND IDENTIFYING LAND FEATURES UTILISING REMOTE SENSING SATELLITE IMAGERY AND MACHINE LEARNING TECHNIQUES
   > period. The study employs a dataset consisting of multispectral satellite images from different years, along with corresponding ground truth data, for training and validation of
01667|Potato-Free: Eliminating Model Training for Disease Detection and Localization in Potato Tubers
   > for this task. However, DCNNs mainly require large annotated datasets and often generalize poorly to unseen conditions or potato tuber diseases. In this paper, Potato-Free is introduced as … that the proposed framework achieves a macro F1-Score of 63.20% in a cross-dataset evaluation on completely unseen potato tuber diseases, providing comparable performance to State-of-the-Art DCNN classificatio
01668|Predicting Cross-Species Infection of Swine Influenza Virus with Representation Learning of Amino Acid Features
   > SIVs. For this purpose, we propose a feature representation algorithm to predict cross-species infection of SIVs. We built a high-quality dataset of 1902 viruses. A
01669|Seamless and automated rapeseed mapping for large cloudy regions using time-series optical satellite imagery
   > [no abstract]
01670|Bridging animal models and humans: neuroimaging as intermediate phenotypes linking genetic or stress factors to anhedonia
   > sensorimotor regions. Consistent patterns emerged in two neuroimaging subtypes identified across three independent depressed cohorts. The subtype resembling P11 knockout demonstrated higher genetic susceptibility, with … symptom of depression, in both rodent models and depressed subtypes. CONCLUSIONS: This cross-species validation suggests that these neuroimaging patterns may serve as robust inter
01671|Cross-Plant Transfer Assessment of Photovoltaic Performance Using Data-Driven Models and a Normalized Technical Factor
   > Assessing whether data-driven photovoltaic (PV) models can generalize beyond the plants used for training remains a critical challenge when operational … study proposes a methodological framework for cross-plant transfer assessment, focusing on spatial generalization rather than within-plant temporal fitting. Daily operational data from three utility-scale PV
01672|YOLO-RP: A Lightweight and Efficient Detection Method for Small Rice Pests in Complex Field Environments
   > by 61.3%, 50.8%, and 49.1% to 1.00 M, 3.1, and 2.8 MB. Cross-dataset tests on Common Rice Pests (Philippines), IP102, and Pest24 confirm strong robustness and generalization. On NVIDIA Jetson Nano, YOLO-RP attains 20.8 FPS—66.4% faster than the baseline—validating
01673|The post-conflict expansion of coca farming and illicit cattle ranching in Colombia
   > Our study enables the differentiation of illicit land activities, which can be transferred to other regions where these activities have been documented but poorly distinguished spatiotemporally. We
01674|Service-Specific Heterogeneity in Sepsis Variable Significance and Machine Learning Model Performance: A Stratified Analysis of the BIAlert Cohort
   > [no term] Background/Objectives: Sepsis detection relies on clinical variables and scoring systems assumed to perform uniformly across hospital settings. However, sepsis phenotype distributions shift between clinical environments, suggesting that variable importance may
01675|Machine Learning application for modeling high-resolution groundwater storage variations in North China Plain
   > [no abstract]
01676|On-Air Deep Learning Integrated Semantic Inference Models for Enhanced Earth Observation Satellite Networks
   > solution by enabling the integration of raw and processed EO data. Through domain adaptation, LLMs improve the assimilation and analysis of many data sources, tackling
01677|Non-destructive food grading with Vis-NIR: Chemometrics and machine learning review
   > [no abstract]
01678|Video based deep learning deciphers honeybee waggle dances in natural conditions
   > second, and a run angle RMSE of 0.21 radians. It is also generalizable to other recording conditions and bee species. Conclusion Our approach enables precise
01679|Intelligent intrusion detection system featuring a virtual fence, active intruder detection, classification, tracking, and action recognition
   > [no abstract]
01680|WICN: intelligent optimizer and deep learning for anomaly detection using hyperspectral images
   > [no abstract]
01681|EZ-FRCNN: A Fast, Accessible and Robust Deep Learning Package for Object Detection Applications from Ethology to Cell Biology
   > [no term] Abstract Advances in high-throughput imaging and experimental automation have dramatically increased the scale of biological datasets, creating a growing need for tools that can efficiently identify and localize features in
01682|Assessment and Examination of Emergency Management Capabilities in Chinese Rural Areas from a Machine Learning Perspective
   > Management Capability (REMC). To increase the resilience of Chinese rural areas against external dangers, REMC and its driving elements must be effectively categorized and evaluated. … and city levels to compare the influence of various driving factors in different regions. The findings show that China’s REMC levels have improved over time,
01683|67 Precision identification and weight assessment of cattle using supervised machine learning on body surface keypoints
   > of 50) were optimized. For the second objective, due to the completely new environment, the keypoint model was fine-tuned using transfer learning for 240 epochs … sex were used as features. A RF model was trained using a leave-one-animal-out cross-validation approach. The hyperparameters were determined through a grid search on the
01684|Development and Preliminary Evaluation of a YOLO-Based Fruit Counting and Maturity Evaluation Mobile Application for Blueberries
   > 10,851 unripe (“Unblue”) fruit. The in-season testing showed better accuracy than the cross-season testing, implying more efforts are needed to improve model robustness across different
01685|ML-based technologies in sustainable agro-food production and beyond: Tapping the (semi) arid landscape for bioactives-based product development
   > [no term] The current era of rapid climate change necessitates greater emphasis on wild, often underutilized yet sturdy, edible plants that are capable of growing in harsh arid lands. When compared to
01686|Characterizing yield through wheat’s perception of chronological progression: a multi-omics plant-time warping approach
   > mere genomic prediction models, PTW demonstrates superior performance when predicting yield in unseen environments across 48 year-locations in Europe. The PTW model captures non-linear growth … substantially advance research in climate adaptation strategies for crop production by addressing generalization challenges of predictions to novel environmental conditions. Highlight We present a novel
01687|Prediction of Kv11.1 potassium channel PAS-domain variants trafficking via machine learning
   > [no term] 1 Abstract Congenital long QT syndrome (LQTS) is characterized by a prolonged QT-interval on an electrocardiogram (ECG). An abnormal prolongation in the QT-interval increases the risk for fatal arrhythmias despite
01688|An Intelligent Deep learning Based Animal Detection System
   > [no term] Efficient and reliable monitoring of wild animals in their natural habitat is essential. We develop a system to detect animals with automatic alerts as part of the project. Since there
01689|Physics-informed deep learning for data-efficient and robust photovoltaic power forecasting
   > forecasting is challenged by its inherent variability. Pure data-driven models struggle with generalization under data scarcity and complex weather conditions. In this paper, we introduce … data, and exceptional robustness, providing a 6.87% improvement in performance under strong cross-seasonal data distribution shifts. This work provides a reliable and data-efficient forecasting solution, establ
01690|An Efficient Method for the Classification of Croplands in Scarce-Label Regions
   > and Random Forest. Subsequently, we use the self-supervised tasks to perform unsupervised domain adaptation and benefit from the labeled samples in other regions. It is crucial to know what information to transfer to avoid degrading the performance. We show how to automate the information selection and transfer … 24% compared to a baseline architecture without any labeled sample in the target doma
01691|Soil moisture dynamics in heterogeneous tropical landscapes using active–passive Earth observations and machine learning
   > robustness (R² = 0.65). By normalizing site-specific dynamics, the RSMI provided coherent cross-site assessments and revealed greater persistence of moisture in clay-rich and flatter terrains. This method delivers a scalable and transferable tool for operational SM monitoring, supporting applications in precision agriculture, drought risk
01692|RR-LTNet: Ramp-Rate-Centric Deep Learning Framework for Short-Horizon Photovoltaic Power Prediction
   > models are augmented with RR-aware features than when those features are absent. Cross-site validation on two additional PV plants with different capacity and data distribution
01693|Genomic evidence for climate-linked diversity loss and increased vulnerability of wild barley spanning 28 years of climate warming
   > sampling sites, which accompanied by admixture/introgressions. The 28-y climate warming resulted in decreased genetic diversity, increased selection pressure, and an increase in deleterious single nucleotide
01694|Validating the feasibility of the method of ensemble learning combined with FT-MIR for the discrimination of wild Paris polyphylla var. Yunnanensis fr
   > [no abstract]
01695|Major distribution shifts are projected for key rangeland grasses under a high-emission scenario in East Africa at the end of the 21st century
   > [no term] Grassland landscapes are important ecosystems in East Africa, providing habitat and grazing grounds for wildlife and livestock and supporting pastoralism, an essential part of the agricultural sector. Since future grassland
01696|Improving the SGD Optimizer from the Perspective of ODE for Plant Disease Identification
   > on the details of images and should adapt to the variability of real-world conditions, which imposes high demands on the convergence and generalization capabilities of optimizers for deep neural networks (DNNs). However, traditional optimizers need help ensuring effective convergence and achieving satisfactory generalization. To address this issue, we interpret the optimization process of DNNs as 
01697|PrimateFace: A Machine Learning Resource for Automated Face Analysis in Human and Non-human Primates
   > progress in neuroscience, anthropology, and conservation. Here, we present PrimateFace, a comprehensive, cross-species platform for primate facial analysis comprising a systematically curated dataset of 260,000+ … boxes and facial landmark configurations. Face detection and facial landmark estimation models trained on PrimateFace achieve high cross-species performance, from tarsiers to gorillas, a
01698|Unsupervised monocular depth estimation with omnidirectional camera for 3D reconstruction of grape berries in the wild
   > of the proposed method for estimating the 3D positions of grape berries in the wild.
01699|Estimation of Ewe Live Weight and Carcass Traits Using Advanced Hybrid Deep Learning and Multimodal Feature Fusion
   > technique treats the BCS as a distinct token in the self-attention sequence. Data partitioning at the animal level was stringent, thereby giving strong generalization. Findings indicate that the best advanced fusion systems are far better than
01700|Using Machine Learning to Explore Multimodal Digital Markers for Early Detection of Cognitive Impairment in Alzheimer’s Disease
   > desaturation thresholds and periodicity measures (p=0.008‐0.00007). Additionally, incorporating maximum heart rate, revealed another group of 8 subjects, 6 identified as CI, distinguished by elevated heart
01701|Stability of microbiota in vineyard soils across consecutive years
   > species. Comparatively, little data exists documenting how soil microbial communities change between different years. Quantifying the temporal stability of soil microbial communities will allow us … indicator species that could classify samples according to their geographic origin across different years with high accuracy. Importance The temporal stability of the soil microbiota
01702|Multi-Model Machine Learning Mapping of Gully Erosion Susceptibility in the Heihe Region of the Xiaoxingán Mountains, China
   > XGBoost achieved the highest discrimination (AUC = 0.95, κ = 0.74); under leave-one-district-out spatial cross-validation all tree-based models retained AUC above 0.83, confirming that random-split metrics … co-occurring land-cover and hydrological changes were not simulated. The multi-model framework, integrating spatial cross-validation and post hoc interpretability, provides an explicit estimat
01703|Sustainable management of tropical pastures through dynamic forage biomass monitoring with remote sensing and machine learning
   > [no abstract]
01704|Analyzing the enhancement of CNN-YOLO and transformer based architectures for real-time animal detection in complex ecological environments
   > observations. Persistent challenges such as small-object detection, class imbalance, and limited cross-geographical generalization are discussed alongside enhancement strategies, including attention mechanisms, few-shot learning, and domain adaptation. Furthermore, practical deployment considerations are explored, with emphasis on edge computing … UAV-based imagery. However, large-scale deployment
01705|Sugarcane yield estimation through remote sensing time series and phenology metrics
   > on the combinatorial use of all predictor variables. Our experiments demonstrate that dimensionality-independent phenological metrics achieve good yield estimation results which could be a very useful variable set for model transfer and domain adaptation.
01706|TransBrain: a computational framework for translating brain-wide phenotypes between humans and mice
   > homology mapping accuracy through: (1) a novel detached region-specific deep neural networks trained on integrated multi-modal human transcriptomics to improve cortical correspondence (89.5% improvement over … variance, and (2) random walk-based graph representation learning to construct a unified cross-species latent space incorporating anatomical hierarchies and structural connectivity. We demon
01707|SIMULATION OF FLOOD-PRONE AREAS USING MACHINE LEARNING AND GIS TECHNIQUES IN SAMANGAN PROVINCE, AFGHANISTAN
   > Every year, this hazard causes human-financial losses and damage to croplands in different locations worldwide. This research employs a combination of artificial neural networks and
01708|Potential analysis and energy prediction of photovoltaic power plants using satellite-based remote sensing and artificial intelligence techniques
   > assess the potential of PV power plants and predict energy generation in different locations. We utilize GIS and the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) in ArcGIS
01709|Identification of Acacia invasive species in protected areas of Spain using PlanetScope high-resolution satellite images and machine learning models i
   > [no abstract]
01710|AI-driven multiscale virtual plant cell modeling: from molecular mechanisms to tissue functions
   > (GANs), transfer learning, and multi-omics integration strategies in addressing data scarcity and cross-species modeling challenges. The review also discusses validation methodologies such as in vitro
01711|Cropper: An explainable lightweight attention-guided ensemble for robust plant disease diagnosis in data-scarce conditions
   > computational resources, while lightweight networks struggle with robustness under data scarcity and domain shift. Addressing these open challenges, we propose Cropper, an ensemble-based framework for
01712|Rafanoset: Dataset of Manually and Automatically Annotated Raphanus Raphanistrum Weed Images for Object Detection and Segmentation
   > [no abstract]
01713|Winter Wheat Nitrogen Content Prediction and Transferability of Models Based on UAV Image Features
   > feature combination methods of spectral and texture features remain underexplored, and model transferability across different agricultural practices is poorly understood. This study aims to present … of 0.10 and 0.07, and MAE values of 0.07and 0.05; (2) models trained on Farmers’ Practice (FP) data showed superior transferability to Ecological Intensification (EI) conditions (R2 = 0.98, RMSE = 0.0
01714|Automated Machine Learning for High-Resolution Daily and Hourly Methane Emission Mapping for Rice Paddies over South Korea: Integrating MODIS, ERA5-La
   > with correlation coefficients (CC) of 0.897 in 5-fold cross-validation and 0.819 in Leave-One-Year-Out (LOYO) cross-validation. Shapley Additive Explanations (SHAP) analysis revealed that while soil temperature
01715|Drosophila genotypes can be predicted from their exploration locomotive trajectories using supervised machine learning
   > mutant genotypes. Using the final 5minutes and the entire ten minute duration decreased the performance indicating that the most variations between the genotypes in their
01716|An Integrated Study of Ramie (Boehmeria nivea), and Its Wild, Cultivated, and Feral Forms
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Feralization, the re‐establishment of wild populations from domesticated ancestors, can involve multiple parallel character reversions and potentially also rampant gene flow with cultivated and/or naturally wild material. It hence
01717|PlantClassiNet: A Dual-Modal Fine-Tuning Framework for CNN-Based Plant Disease Classification
   > large-scale pre-trained datasets alleviates these issues, yet generic feature extraction suffers from domain shift, while indiscriminate fine-tuning risks over-fitting and elevated training budgets. To address
01718|Analysis of Learned Features and Framework for Potato Disease Detection
   > For applications like plant disease detection, usually, a model is trained on publicly available data and tested on field data. This means that the test data distribution is not … training data distribution, which affects the classifier performance adversely. We handle this dataset shift by ensuring that the features are learned from disease spots in
01719|Multi-sensor integration and cloud-native AI for climate-smart agricultural monitoring: A systems framework
   > superiority over process-based models is conditional on calibration quality, data availability, and cross-regional transferability. Cloud-based platforms have reduced computational barriers and enabled large-scale time-series analysis, supporting … regional scales. Despite these advances, reproducibility limitations, ground-truth data scarcity, and reduced transferability across agroecological zon
01720|Enhancing tree seed germination prediction with image-driven machine learning models.
   > image models exhibited poor results due to the high variability in seed external features, the subtle differences between germinated and non-germinated seeds, and the variability
01721|Evaluating the role of training data origin for country-scale cropland mapping in data-scarce regions: A case study of Nigeria
   > lightweight multi-task learning variant (multi-headed LSTM), previously applied to cropland mapping in other regions. Our findings highlight the importance of local training data, which consistently … performance, with accuracy gains up to 0.246 (RF) and 0.178 (LSTM). Models trained on Nigeria-only or regional datasets outperformed those trained on global data, except for the multi-headed LSTM, wh
01722|EUP: Enhanced cross-species prediction of ubiquitination sites via a conditional variational autoencoder network based on ESM2
   > [no term] Ubiquitination is critical in biomedical research. Predicting ubiquitination sites based on deep learning model have advanced the study of ubiquitination. However, traditional supervised model limits in the scenarios where labels
01723|Estimating Sugarcane Yield and its Components Using Unmanned Aerial Systems (Uas)- Based High Throughput Phenotyping (Htp)
   > [no abstract]
01724|Using large-scale climate drivers to forecast meteorological drought condition in growing season across the Australian wheatbelt
   > believe the proposed meteorological drought forecasting models can be easily extended to other regions to provide drought outlooks which can help mitigate adverse drought impacts.
01725|A Multimodal Deep Learning Approach for White Matter Shape Prediction in Diffusion MRI Tractography
   > five primary shape components. The model is trained and evaluated on two independently acquired datasets: the Human Connectome Project minimally preprocessed young adults (HCP-YA) dataset and the Parkinson's Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI) dataset. Tract2Shape is trained and tested on the HCP-YA dataset, with performance compared against state-of-the-art models. To assess robustness and gene
01726|Population genomics reveals association of transposable elements variants with climatic adaptation in wild Amur grape
   > [no term] Amur grape (Vitis amurensis Rupr.) is widely recognized for its cold tolerance traits and serves as a valuable genetic resource for breeding climate-resilient grape cultivars. Here, we construct a graph
01727|Input selection and data-driven model performance optimization to predict the Standardized Precipitation and Evaporation Index in a drought-prone regi
   > model (Station 4). The good agreement between observed and predicted SPEI at different locations within the study region indicated the potential of the developed models
01728|One-stage detection for unsupervised domain adaptation with efficient multi-scale attention and confidence-augmented combination
   > Abstract. Unsupervised domain adaptation for object detection leverages a labeled domain to learn an object detector generalizing to a different domain free of annotations. We propose efficient multi-scale attention, … methods, our approach crops high-confidence detection regions from both the source and target domains, augments them, and combines them to generate composite samples. In addition, c
01729|Cross-Domain Few-Shot Infrared Ship Segmentation With Class-Specific Adapters and SAM Refinement
   > the target IR domain, poses a dual challenge that severely restricts the cross-domain application of segmentation networks. Existing few-shot segmentation methods mostly assume similar data distributions, while domain adaptation methods rely on abundant unlabeled data; consequently, neither approach effectively addresses the combined problem of cross-domain and few-shot learning. To address this i
01730|Ecological Systems Classification: Integrating Machine Learning, Ancillary Modeling, and Sentinel-2 Satellite Imagery
   > framework for finer resolution mapping of ecological systems at broad scales in other regions.
01731|A new approach in generating feature-rich graphical maps using machine learning and its application in peach juice processing
   > [no abstract]
01732|Optimization of Bioactive Compound Extraction from Prunus spinosa L. Fruits Using Ultrasound-Assisted Extraction with Food-Grade Glycerin: A Combined 
   > [no term] Within the framework of green chemistry and wild fruit valorization, this study optimizes the extraction of bioactive compounds from Prunus spinosa L. fruits using glycerin-based ultrasound-assisted extraction (UAE). Response Surface
01733|Enhancing cotton irrigation with distributional actor–critic reinforcement learning
   > between irrigation events and these states. Additionally, we validated the robustness and generalizability of the model using three years of extreme weather data and two consecutive years of cross-site observations. This method surpasses previous irrigation strategies managed by standard reinforcement learning
01734|Making waves: Model transfer as a key pathway to improving the generalization of machine learning in wastewater treatment engineering
   > [no abstract]
01735|Advanced geospatial and machine learning models identify groundwater potential and reveal storage dynamics in Ethiopia’s abbay river basin
   > extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost)–to capture spatial nonlinearity and hydrogeological complexity. Models were trained on 18 environmental predictors and 7100 well/spring locations, balanced with pseudoabsences generated … km from known water points. To reduce spatial autocorrelation bias, a 5-fold spatial cross-validation was employed. Model performance was evaluated using accuracy, F1 score, lo
01736|Look4LTRs: a Long terminal repeat retrotransposon detection tool capable of cross species studies and discovering recently nested repeats
   > [no term] Abstract Plant genomes include large numbers of transposable elements. One particular type of these elements is flanked by two Long Terminal Repeats (LTRs) and can translocate using RNA. Such elements
01737|Study of molecular mechanisms of herbicide binding t o target proteins of weeds by in silico methods
   > [no term] The aim of this study was to study of the molecular mechanisms of herbicide binding (pinoxaden, quizalofop- P-tephuryl, prometryn, metribuzin, metsulfuron- methyl) to target proteins (acetyl- CoA carboxylase, acetolactate synthase,
01738|Identification of soil erosion hotspot zones using integrated machine learning and geospatial models
   > [no abstract]
01739|Harnessing unlabeled plant data and labeled lab data for enhanced quality prediction in laser welding
   > [no abstract]
01740|Exploring opportunities of Artificial Intelligence in aquaculture to meet increasing food demand
   > [no term] The increasing global population drives a rising demand for food, particularly fish as a preferred protein source, straining capture fisheries. Overfishing has depleted wild stocks, emphasizing the need for advanced
01741|Phenological piecewise modelling is more conducive than whole-season modelling to winter wheat yield estimation based on remote sensing data
   > the vegetation indices and meteorological factors were optimized. Then the accuracy and spatiotemporal transferability of the phenological piecewise modelling was compared with that of the … models improved by 1.4% to 7.6%, the root mean square error (RMSE) decreased by 1.1% to 8.2% among four regression methods . In addition, compared with the whole-season models, the spatiotemporal transferabili
01742|Application of deep learning for multi-scale behavioral analysis in SNCA E46K Parkinson’s disease drosophila
   > [no abstract]
01743|Gaining New Insights in Plant Biology through Human–Machine Collaboration
   > enhance the study of root developmental control in response to internal and external cues. In another approach, Kang et al. (2023) introduced two coordinate normalization (CN) methods, image-based … studying both cell biological and tissue patterning aspects of root hair development. Another aspect of plant development and physiology attracting the attention of researchers is
01744|Wild Animal Intrusion Detection
   > by surveillance cameras placed in strategic locations. The deep learning model is trained on a diverse dataset of wildlife images to enable accurate identification and
01745|Machine learning-guided optimization and Shiny-based deployment for in vitro shoot propagation of sumac (Rhus coriaria)
   > [no abstract]
01746|Deep learning tools to support deforestation monitoring in Ivory Coast using SAR and optical satellite imagery
   > input. State-of-the-art models U-Net, Attention U-Net, Segnet and FCN32 are compared over different years, combining Sentinel-1, Sentinel-2, and cloud probability to create forest/non-forest segmentation. Although
01747|Identification of Linear Vegetation Elements in a Rural Landscape Using LiDAR Point Clouds
   > (0.90). These findings are a promising step towards testing our method in other regions and for upscaling it to broad spatial extents. This would allow
01748|Demonstrating the Potential of a Low-Cost Soil Moisture Sensor Network
   > [no term] Soil moisture is a key parameter of the climate system as it relates to plant transpiration and photosynthesis and impacts land-atmosphere interactions. Recent developments have seen an increasing number of
01749|Industrial carbon emission efficiency prediction and carbon emission reduction strategies based on multi-objective particle swarm optimization-backpro
   > were employed for exploring driving force and carbon emission reduction strategies in different regions. The results show that most cities had low or medium ICEE, … Agricultural Production Region, there is considerable room for improving the ICEE of other regions over the next decade. Macroeconomic and microeconomic development have a global
01750|Breeding Climate-Resilient Soybeans for 2050 and Beyond: Leveraging Novel Technologies to Mitigate Yield Stagnation and Climate Change Impacts
   > [no term] Soybean is a vital crop supporting global food, feed, and biofuel production. Soybean yields have surged, with record yields reaching 14,678 kg/ha−1, though average farm yields remain stagnant at 2770–2790
01751|Unfixed Seasonal Partition Based on Symbolic Aggregate Approximation for Forecasting Solar Power Generation Using Deep Learning
   > [no term] Solar energy is an important alternative energy source, and it is essential to forecast solar power generation for efficient power management. Due to the seasonal characteristics of weather features, seasonal
01752|Transfer learning for improving generalizability in predicting soybean maturity date using UAV imagery
   > study evaluated the feasibility of three transfer learning techniques in improving the generalizability of models developed using historical data to predict the maturity dates of soybean breeding lines across new environments. Methods Our dataset included five breeding trials conducted in two sites … in the models. Transfer learning techniques, namely pre-training and fine-tuning, single-source an
01753|The authentication of the local cured Nicotiana tabacum L. based on varieties by using machine learning algorithms
   > great economic and scientific importance and some important varieties are cultivated in different regions of Indonesia. With the rise in tobacco smuggling and counterfeiting, there
01754|Automated starch granule classification using high-throughput microscopy and machine learning
   > [no term] Starch analysis is widely used in archaeology to investigate the processing of wild plants for food and medicine, as well as the domestication and spread of cultigens. Starch analyses are
01755|Integrating SMAP and CYGNSS data for daily soil moisture and agricultural drought monitoring in Nghe An province, Vietnam
   > [no abstract]
01756|In-Field Mapping of Grape Yield and Quality With Illumination-Invariant Deep Learning
   > hyperspectral imaging (HSI) data. A critical barrier to in-field HSI is the “domain shift” caused by variable illumination. To overcome this, our quality assessment is … $R^{2}$ (0.76) for weight prediction, while the LISA module improves quality prediction generalization by over 20% compared with the baselines. By combining these robust modules,
01757|Development of a Predictive Model of the Flight Dynamics of the European Corn Borer, Ostrinia nubilalis Hübner, 1796 (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), in the 
   > growing season. ECB monitoring was performed by using light traps at 15 different locations in the Vojvodina region (Serbia) during the specified time period. First,
01758|Ensemble modelling reveals spiny monkey orange ( Strychnos spinosa Lam.) as a vulnerable wild edible fruit tree in West Africa
   > (RF), Maximum Entropy (MaxEnt), Support Vector Machine (SVM), Boosted Regression Trees, and Generalized Linear Model (GLM)) and four global climate models (CanESM5, CNRM-CM6-1, HadGEM3-GC31-LL, and
01759|Modeling, energy analysis and feasibility assessment of ocean thermal power plant in Malaysia
   > [no abstract]
01760|Data fusion of FT-NIR and ATR-FTIR spectra for accurate authentication of geographical indications for Gastrodia elata Blume
   > is a prerequisite to safeguard consumer interests and maintain the market. Four different regions and three varieties of G. elata Bl. from Zhaotong were used
01761|Where the wild beavers are: Climate and landscape controls on beaver pond area in snow‐dominated rangeland headwaters
   > [no term] Abstract Beavers are of increasing interest as a mechanism for ecosystem restoration. However, the physical watershed characteristics that allow for successful beaver re‐establishment are not consistent across habitat suitability models.
01762|A multimodal machine learning framework for cereal rye biomass estimation across landscapes
   > [no abstract]
01763|Modeling soil cation exchange capacity using soil parameters: Assessing the heuristic models
   > [no abstract]
01764|Land Use Land Cover Change Detection and Future Forecasting in Ningxia, China: A Random Forest and ANN-Based Approach for Sustainable Development
   > [no term] The accurate tracking and prediction of Land Use Land Change monitoring and prediction precision or accuracy are urgent for technological development and practical ecology management. This objective is pursued by
01765|Lightweight dual-stage feature refinement for black gram leaf disease classification using ConViTSE
   > black gram dataset, outperforming traditional deep learning models. Furthermore, ConViTSE exhibits robust cross-domain generalization, achieving accuracies of 98.75% for rice, 98.20% for maize, and 95% for
01766|Predicting Coffee Sensory Quality Using Machine Learning and Synthetic Terroir-Based Data
   > research, demonstrating that synthetic environments can effectively replicate empirical patterns and enable cross-domain generalizability. The complete code and datasets are publicly available for reproducibility.
01767|VARNet: Variational adversarial residual-aware network for hyperspectral corn variety identification
   > [no abstract]
01768|Salinity Intrusion Prediction in the Estuary Using Machine Learning: Vietnam’s Mekong Delta Tested for Global Study
   > [no abstract]
01769|Automated yield monitor data post-processing pipeline via explainable model benchmarking and stacked ensemble
   > raw dataset, though they fell slightly short of CatBoost’s score. Evaluation on unseen fields demonstrated the model’s ability to locate error-prone regions, though isolated false
01770|A web‐based app for sunn pest species recognition (Hemiptera: Scutelleridae: Eurygaster ) using machine learning
   > controlled conditions with various devices, including a budget smartphone and photographs taken in the wild. The trained model demonstrated high classification metrics in identifying Eurygaster
01771|Detection techniques for tomato diseases under non-stationary climatic conditions
   > in agricultural settings, they typically assume that training and testing data are independently and identically distributed (i.i.d.), which often doesn't hold in real-world scenarios. When pre-trained models are applied to new environments, performance can degrade due to domain shifts. To address this, we propose CTTA-DisDet, a continuous test-time domain adaptation framework for tomato disease d
01772|Mapping Sugarcane in Central India with Smartphone Crowdsourcing
   > useful insights into sugarcane mapping that can improve the approaches taken in other regions.
01773|Spatiotemporal evolution of agricultural greenhouses based on remote sensing data: A case study of Weinan City in China
   > with their spatial distribution becoming increasingly concentrated. The gravity center of greenhouse distribution shifted from the southwest to the northeast. Lastly, we examined the driving
01774|Generalized cross-crop and cross-sensor plant nitrogen estimation with Wasserstein generative augmentation
   > [no abstract]
01775|Epidemiologically-constrained severity modeling for plant disease detection via progressive multimodal fusion and dynamic multi-task learning
   > [no abstract]
01776|Bayesian Ridge Algorithm for Brix Prediction in Industrial Tomato
   > soil data from the selected fields. Data came from fields from 6 different regions in Peloponnese, Greece over 3 cultivation periods. 12 different algorithms were
01777|Review: Synergy between mechanistic modelling and data-driven models for modern animal production systems in the era of big data
   > identify potential niches for models in animal production of the future, a cross-species (dairy, swine and poultry) examination of the current state of the art
01778|Using Machine Learning For Cross-Crop Nitrogen Deficiency Detection In Crops
   > (Fu et al., 2021). This study frames N deficiency detection as a cross-domain transfer learning problem and develops a cross-crop machine learning framework for wheat, maize, and rice using RGB imagery under … splits for reproducibility. Performance was evaluated under three scenarios: within-crop testing, direct cross-crop transfer without retraining, and domain adaptation using unlabeled target 
01779|Characterization of multi-scale urban habitat wildness: Integration of the rewilding theory into novel urban ecosystem restoration and management
   > [no abstract]
01780|Transferability of spatial and temporal learning models for winter wheat mapping in data-scarce environments: A case study in Armenia
   > ground truth availability using multi-source satellite images. We evaluate the possibility of cross-region generalization through image-based semantic segmentation models (3D Unet and SegNet) and pointwise temporal … winter wheat fields in Armenia, and subsequently transfer and test across five independent test regions in Armenia. Models trained on Sentinel-2 imagery generalize well within the Uni
01781|Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence for Data-Driven Photovoltaic Power Systems: A Review
   > further identified the most critical deployment barriers, such as incomplete benchmarks, weak cross-site generalization, insufficient uncertainty calibration, limited interpretability, network security risks, and computational costs. The
01782|Tool wear monitoring using an online, automatic and low cost system based on local texture
   > proposed method is based on (1) dividing the cutting edge image in different regions, called Wear Patches (WP), (2) characterising each one as worn or
01783|WILD ANIMAL CLASSIFICATION USING DEEP CONVOLUTION NEURAL NETWORK FOR AGRICULTURAL FIELDS
   > [no abstract]
01784|From time-series generation and model selection to transfer learning: A review and comparative analysis of pixel-wise approaches for large-scale crop 
   > and propose selecting a crop-mapping workflow based on target-site sample size and domain shift from a sample-abundant source site. To comprehensively evaluate the reviewed approaches, … accuracy with substantially faster training. Second, transfer learning increased workflow adaptability: unsupervised domain adaptation was effective for homogeneous crop classes, while fine-tuning was more robust
01785|History, Phylogeny, Biodiversity, and New Computer-Based Tools for Efficient Micropropagation and Conservation of Pistachio (Pistacia spp.) Germplasm
   > [no term] The word “pstk” [pistag], used in the ancient Persian language, is the linguistic root from which the current name “pistachio”, used worldwide, derives. The word pistachio is generally used to
01786|Convolutional Neural Networks for the Detection of Multiclass Plant Diseases
   > roadblocks across the world. The presence of illnesses in the grown plants decreases a major share of the yield after delivering efficient resources to the … achieved in discovering plant diseases that impact a range of crops in different regions of the world in recent years. Image capture, preprocessing, and segmentation
01787|Cultivar Differentiation and Origin Tracing of Panax quinquefolius Using Machine Learning Model-Driven Comparative Metabolomics
   > [no term] American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius L.) is a rare and valuable plant utilized for medicinal and culinary purposes, with its geographic origin and cultivation significantly affecting its quality and efficacy. However,
01788|scPlantAnnotate: an accurate and robust transformer-based model for plant cell type annotation
   > with leading baselines under both standard random-split evaluation and a more stringent leave-one-dataset-out setting, which tests robustness to completely unseen datasets and tissue types. scPlantAnnotate consistently outperforms existing approaches across all four species under random-split evaluation. In the leave-one-dataset-out setting for A. thaliana , where performance drops markedly for al
01789|A Machine-Learning Analysis of 50 Years of Trends In Wildlife Trade Patents
   > [no abstract]
01790|TWO-BRANCH DEEP CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS FOR EFFICIENT TOMATO PLANT DISEASE CLASSIFICATION
   > accuracy of 76.91%, outperforming baselines by 6 percentage points at least, while decreasing the number of trainable parameters and floating point operations by 30-50%. An
01791|Attention-based pretrained deep learning framework for nutrient deficiency diagnosis in oilseed rape using UAV multispectral imagery
   > offers richer spectral information for crop monitoring. However, transferring deep learning models trained on RGB data to the MS domain is problematic due to spectral-domain shifts. To address this issue, we developed a deep transfer learning framework … MS F1-score to 0.914 and shortened training time by 35.7%. On an independent cross-year validation, the optimal MS-based model achieved a competi
01792|Sparse Feature Selection, Not Deep Learning Capacity, Drives Spatial Transfer in Crop Classification
   > [no abstract]
01793|Transfer learning-based soybean LAI estimations by integrating PROSAIL, UAV, and PlanetScope imagery
   > soybean LAI. Traditional machine learning, deep learning, and transfer learning models are trained on a hybrid UAV-Sim and field-measured dataset (UAV-Sim_Measured), with the transfer learning … by fine-tuning the CNN-TL model on PlanetScope simulated data (PS-Sim), preprocessed via cross-domain mapping to align UAV and satellite spectral features. Real PlanetScope imagery is
01794|Geographically weighted linear combination test for gene-set analysis of a continuous spatial phenotype as applied to intratumor heterogeneity
   > impact of gene-sets on a spatial phenotype is not necessarily uniform across different locations of cancer tissue. This study introduces a computational platform, GWLCT, for
01795|Integrating Fitbit Wearables and Self-Reported Surveys for Machine Learning-Based State–Trait Anxiety Prediction
   > to predict state–trait anxiety. Leveraging the multi-modal, longitudinal LifeSnaps dataset, which captured “in the wild” data from 71 participants over four months, this research develops
01796|Phenotype Driven Data Augmentation Methods for Transcriptomic Data
   > imbalances. Machine learning models tend to overfit these data and do not generalize well on out-of-distribution samples. Data augmentation strategies help alleviate this by introducing synthetic data points … these challenges, we introduce two classes of phenotype-driven data augmentation approaches—signature-dependent and signature-independent. The signature-dependent methods assume the existenc
01797|Modelling G×E with historical weather information improves genomic prediction in new environments
   > from environmental and genomic covariates, but existing works have not shown that generalization to new environments and years without access to in-season data is possible and practical
01798|SpatioTemporal Inference Network for Precipitation Nowcasting With Multimodal Fusion
   > dimensions, a spatiotemporally shared kernel is not optimal for capturing features across different regions and seasons. Second, these methods isolate the precipitation from other meteorological
01799|Sugarcane abandonment mapping in Rio de Janeiro state Brazil
   > [no abstract]
01800|Recursive feature elimination for summer wheat leaf area index using ensemble algorithm-based modeling: The case of central Highland of Ethiopia
   > metrics, and topographic variables, were used. The preprocessing stage involved creating 136 independent variables in the GEE, whereas the LAI data were collected from 84 … Ceptometer. Further processing included feature combination, min–max normalization, extraction of the 136 independent variables to the LAI data, and data partitioning for training and testing. The RFE algorithm was applied via 
01801|A Study on Wild and Domestic Animal Detection for Farm Protection by using Computer Vision
   > images. By analyzing a diverse dataset comprising various animal species, the model generalizes effectively. Key features such as accuracy, precision, recall, F1-score, and confusion matrices
01802|Improved multiscale attention based deep learning approach for automated sugarcane leaf disease detection using BSRI data
   > Kaggle images with those from the Bangladesh Sugarcrop Research Institute (BSRI), simulating real-world conditions. All images undergo preprocessing steps, including resizing, normalization, and data augmentation, … dataset. These findings highlight MADRN's superior ability to learn discriminative features and generalize effectively across diverse data sources, making it a promising tool for preci
01803|A machine learning approach to genome-wide association mapping of disease resistance and geographic origin in sorghum
   > by geographic origin, SNP-based analyses revealed significant genetic differentiation among accessions from different regions, particularly involving a genetically distinct group from Senegal. Bootstrap Forest models
01804|The role of digital technologies in supporting and improving fishery and aquaculture across the supply chain – Quo Vadis?
   > [no term] Fish constitute important high protein products to meet the demands of an increasing global population. However, the continued depletion of wild fish stocks is leading to increased strain on the
01805|CasMiner: a deep-learning tool for high-throughput mining and rational design of efficient Cas9
   > [no term] Abstract Since its inception, the CRISPR-Cas system, particularly Cas9, has demonstrated immense potential for life science applications, but expansion of the Cas9 toolkit is constrained by sequence-alignment-based strategies for mining
01806|Adaptive Capacity of Machine Learning Approaches for Leaf Area Estimation in Faba Bean Under Diverse Agro-environmental Conditions
   > biological factors, including varying shading intensities, plant densities, and growth stages across different years. The Support Vector Regression (SVR) model achieved the highest predictive accuracy
01807|EDSC-HRAFNet: An apple tree branch semantic segmentation model for harvesting robots under complex orchard conditions
   > masks. Finally, we constructed a dataset of in-situ apple trees under diverse real-world conditions to verify the performance and superiority of EDSC-HRAFNet. EDSC-HRAFNet demonstrates state-of-the-art segmentation performance across eight challenging orchard scenarios and exhibits robust generalization. Experiments show that proposed model achieves precision, recall, dice, IoU, MIoU, and
01808|OPTIMIZING MAINTENANCE STRATEGIES FOR ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT IN PVC MANUFACTURING: A MACHINE LEARNING AND SIMULATION FRAMEWORK
   > a test environment, allowing for the evaluation of different maintenance strategies under real-world conditions to optimize performance and minimize downtime. Implications of the Research: This
01809|Agricultural Land Classification Using Vegetation Indices, PCA, and Google Earth Engine: Case Study of Söke/Aydın
   > be one of the most widely used indicators of environmental change and degradation all over the world. There are various algorithms and methods for LULC … achieve the aims, all available imageries acquired in the same month of different years with less than 10% cloud contamination were used to compose averaged
01810|REU-YOLO: A Context-Aware UAV-Based Rice Ear Detection Model for Complex Field Scenes
   > the original C2f in YOLOv8. It can capture the contextual information between different regions of images and improve the feature extraction ability of the model, … a comprehensive evaluation of REU-YOLO. The results show that REU-YOLO indicates great generalization capabilities and more stable detection performance.
01811|Custom Convolutional Neural Networks and Automated Machine Learning for Medicinal Plant Identification: A Comparative Review
   > [no term] The botanical misidentification of medicinal herbs, particularly the accidental substitution of therapeutic flora with toxic look-alikes, presents critical risks to global public health and pharmaceutical safety. This review synthesizes technical
01812|Classification of Plant Leaf Diseases Using Convolutional Neural Networks
   > should focus on expanding datasets, exploring advanced architectures, and validating models under real-world conditions to maximize utility and accuracy in diverse environments 
01813|Rural economic benefits of land consolidation in mountainous and hilly areas of southeast China: Implications for rural development
   > [no abstract]
01814|A novel DbneAlexnet with Gazelle Hunting Optimization Algorithm enabled wild animal detection in WMSN data communication in IoT environment
   > [no term] Summary The main goal of this strategy is to detect the occurrence of wild animals in farmsteads and human habitats using an improved deep learning in order to avoid loss
01815|A machine learning algorithm for the automatic classification of Phytophthora infestans genotypes into clonal lineages
   > classifying P. infestans genotypes into its clonal lineages was preliminarily evaluated with decreasing amounts of training data. The four best algorithms were then evaluated using … a valuable resource for the prompt identification of clonal lineages spreading into new regions.
01816|A cluster-classification method for accurate mining of seasonal honey bee patterns
   > [no term] Abstract Bees are the main pollinators of most wild plant species and insect-pollinated crops and are essential for both plant ecosystems maintenance and humans food production. Among the crops used
01817|Artificial Intelligence Adoption in Smart Agriculture: A Review of Convolutional Neural Networks for Plant Disease Detection and Agribusiness Sustaina
   > controlled benchmark conditions, several barriers to field deployment persist: dataset bias, poor generalisation in complex agricultural environments, computational constraints, and a continuing shortfall in model interpretability. The review closes by identifying priority research directions, including cross-domain transfer learning, explainable AI, the development of field-representative dataset
01818|Data for: Predictive Modeling of Forest Fires: A New Dataset and Machine Learning Approach
   > [no term] This Dataset was created based on Remote Sensing data to predict the occurrence of wildfires, it contains Data related to the state of crops (NDVI: Normalized Difference Vegetation Index), meteorological
01819|Genes in Humans and Mice: Insights from Deep learning of 777K Bulk Transcriptomes
   > Our methodological innovations offer valuable lessons for future deep learning applications in cross-species omics data. The interspecies gene relationship findings from our study also contribute
01820|Stomata: custodians of leaf gaseous exchange
   > gatekeepers to gaseous diffusion between the internal leaf air spaces and the external atmosphere, the anatomy and behaviour of stomatal pores are fundamental to the … (Leakey et al., 2019). The specialized guard cells surrounding stomata respond to external and environmental cues, including, for example, light intensity (and spectra), CO2 concentration
01821|A novel method for corn futures price prediction integrating decomposition, denoising, feature selection and hybrid networks
   > [no abstract]
01822|Profitability of climate-smart soil fertility investment varies widely across sub-Saharan Africa
   > [no abstract]
01823|Evaluating satellite data and deep learning for identifying direct deforestation drivers in Cameroon
   > demonstrates the potential of leveraging existing available datasets and straightforwardly adapting a generalised framework for other regions experiencing rapid deforestation with only a relatively small amount of location-specific
01824|Europe as a bridgehead in the worldwide invasion history of grapevine downy mildew, Plasmopara viticola
   > [no abstract]
01825|The stacking strategy-based hybrid framework for identifying non-coding RNAs
   > models. We used this framework to build two types of models. For cross-species ncRNAs identification model, we tested it on six different species: human, mouse, … between animals and plants and has significant advantages in the identification of cross-species ncRNAs.
01826|Flood damage functions for rice: Synthesizing evidence and building data-driven models
   > scarce, often lack validation, uncertainty estimates, and assessments of their performance in new regions. This study introduces CROPDAM-X, a framework for developing and evaluating flood … test how well models trained in one region perform when applied to another. Our results show that model performance depends on complexity and context: Random
01827|Deep learning-based object detection of dental implant systems in panoramic and periapical radiographs
   > training for over 500 epochs (batch size: 32) on NVIDIA T4 GPUs. Data partitioning involved an 80:10:10 ratio (training: validation: testing), with performance evaluated using
01828|Spatial Location-Guided Global Context Modeling Network for Cropland Dynamic Monitoring in Multitemporal Remote Sensing Images
   > the feature map and improve the perception ability of cropland change at different locations. In addition, the global context modeling module in the cropland changes
01829|Spatial Transfer Learning for Cross-Regional Crop Mapping
   > interpolated to regular 15-day intervals to ensure consistent model input. Models were trained on a large labeled dataset from Slovenia and transferred to Serbia, where labeled data availability is limited. We evaluated off-the-shelf model … supervised benchmark by 7%. These results demonstrate the potential of TL for cross-regional crop mapping in the studied regions while substantially reducing 
01830|Regional differences in the impact of climate extremes on future global rice yield variability
   > using a stepwise nonlinear regression model. A comparison with random forest and generalized additive models demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed model. Finally, yield responses … insights into how climate extremes will impact future global rice yields in different regions. Extreme climate change will exacerbate rice yield disparities between income groups.Major
01831|Crop-weed classification using deep learning: a comparative study of CNNs, vision transformers, and interpretable models
   > management. However, practical deployment remained challenging due to label noise, varying illumination, domain shifts, and diverse imaging conditions. In this study, five deep learning models … results showed a strong influence of data quality on model performance. Models trained on clean, well separated images consistently outperformed those trained on field-collected data, with improvements of 
01832|Improved Global Maps of the Optimum Growth Temperature, Maximum Light Use Efficiency, and Gross Primary Production for Vegetation
   > areas with T ≥ 25°C, but is obviously higher than T in other regions. εmax is high in regions with a large amount of diffuse
01833|From Missing Data to Climate Action: Machine Learning for Carbon Accounting in Wastewater Systems
   > [no abstract]
01834|A Comparative Benchmark of Real-Time Detectors for Canopy Image-Based Blueberry Detection Toward Precision Orchard Management
   > mAP@50 of 95.5%. These findings highlight the efficacy of SSL for leveraging cross-domain unlabeled data, although further research is needed to fully exploit its benefits.
01835|Assessment of machine learning models for estimating daily reference evapotranspiration in semi-arid region
   > [no abstract]
01836|Advancements in Gene Structure Prediction: Innovation and Prospects of Deep Learning Models Apply in Multi-species
   > learning-based models such as CDSBERT, DNABERT, RNA-FM, and PlantRNA-FM prediction accuracy and generalization have seen remarkable improvements. These models, leveraging genome sequence data along with … in deep learning, showcasing applications in functional region annotation, protein-RNA interactions, and cross-species genome analysis. It highlights their contributions to animal, plant, and hum
01837|Real-Time Feature Recognition of Cantaloupe Flowers and Buds in Greenhouse Based on Deep Learning for Autonomous Pollination
   > [no abstract]
01838|Multi-scale cotton yield prediction using machine learning and Sentinel-2 imagery
   > lint yield using Sentinel-2 imagery. • Yield prediction models were evaluated for generalizability at multiple spatial and temporal scales. • NDVI-based models achieved stable and … models to predict cotton yield using time-series Sentinel-2 imagery and assessed the generalizability and effects of resolution at the sub-field and field scales across multiple
01839|Predicting pyrazinamide resistance in Mycobacterium tuberculosis using a graph convolutional network
   > we employ additional train/test dataset splits to demonstrate the GCN’s ability to generalise and predict resistance in samples with mutations in unseen positions and structural regions. Conclusions Our study demonstrates that graph-based deep learning … protein structure and biochemical features to accurately predict antimicrobial resistance, despite being trained on a small dataset with little v
01840|Exploring soil temperature extremes: unraveling dynamics with local and spatial machine learning models
   > [no abstract]
01841|Harnessing genomic technologies for modern soybean breeding
   > [no abstract]
01842|Crop Yield Estimation Using Machine Learning and Deep Learning Techniques: A Survey with Special Focus on Fruit Yield Estimation in Precision Agricult
   > also identifies persistent issues involving occlusion, illumination and environmental variation, annotation cost, cross-season generalization, sensor fusion, computational constraints, and the distinction between fruit detection accuracy and
01843|Semi-supervised Pseudo Label Learning-based Wheat Head Detection
   > the unlabeled data and use it for model training to improve the generalization performance in the new feature domain. In addition, in order to balance
01844|A Study on the Molecular Mechanisms of Herbicide Binding with Target Proteins in Weeds Using In Silico Methods
   > [no term] The research was carried out in order to study the molecular mechanisms of herbicide binding (pinoxaden, quizalofop-P-tefuril, prometrin, metribuzin, metsulfuron-methyl) with target proteins (acetyl-CoA-carboxylase, acetolactate synthase, cytochrome P450, 4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase)
01845|Ensemble learning-assisted quantitative identifying influencing factors of cadmium and arsenic concentration in rice grain based multiplexed data
   > in the factors affecting rice enrichment for the same heavy metal in different regions. For Cd, rice type (48.30 %), soil characteristics (28.14 %), and
01846|From simple labels to semantic image segmentation: Leveraging citizen science plant photographs for tree species mapping in drone imagery
   > UAV images. Training such pattern recognition models for species segmentation that are transferable across various landscapes and remote sensing data characteristics often requires excessive training … sensing images. Still, both methods are laborious and constrain the training of transferable pattern recognition models. Alternatively, pattern recognition models could be trained on the open knowle
01847|SenNet: A dual-branch image semantic segmentation network for wheat senescence evaluation and high-yielding variety screening
   > 3.15 %, 1.62 %, and 1.03 %, respectively. 3) SenNet can be transferred across years and locations. The mIoU accuracy of the SenNet across locations is 96.01 %. Furthermore, the model trained in 2023 can be transferred to 2022 and 2024, achieving mIoU accuracies of 93.75 % and 93.27
01848|Multi-omics prediction for yellow rust in bread and durum wheat through conventional and Ai-based frameworks
   > yield further improvements, as models often plateaued when using HTP-derived features alone. Cross-crop prediction demonstrated promising generalization across bread and durum wheat, achieving PA values up to 0.83. For
01849|FPGA-Accelerated Machine Learning for Computational Environmental Information Processing in IoT-Integrated High-Density Nanosensor Networks
   > annuum), a commercially important and environmentally sensitive crop, demonstrated system performance under real-world conditions. The control system maintained a temperature and humidity within ±0.3 °C … matter accumulation, a 25% reduction in actuator duty-cycle switching, and an 18% decrease in overall energy consumption. These results highlight the efficacy of FPGA-integrated edge
01850|Non-destructive Analysis of Volatile Compounds for Geographical Identification of Rice
   > analysis, demonstrated the potential for geographic classification of rice between Wuchang and other regions. In addition, partial least squares discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) yielded a goodness … short, the current method can quickly distinguish rice from Wu Chang and other regions, and the research method can facilitate controlling the authenticity and quality
01851|Weather data-centric prediction of maize non-stressed canopy temperature in semi-arid climates for irrigation management
   > [no abstract]
01852|Computer vision‐based recognition and distinction of Arabidopsis thaliana ecotypes using supervised deep learning models
   > dataset; (ii) data redefinition in instances of high data complexity; and (iii) data partitioning based on extracted morphological similarity among ecotype replicates. The pipeline includes … to identify the best‐performing models for single‐image and image‐sequence ecotype classification. Two external datasets were evaluated to demonstrate the robustness of the pipeline, regardless of
01853|Spatiotemporal variations of aquatic vegetation in Maracaibo Lake: Remote sensing and machine learning approach with Google Earth Engine
   > model achieved high accuracy (>0.80), as evidenced by the confusion matrix and cross-sensor comparison. This approach provides a tool for continuous long-term monitoring that can
01854|LCSNet–FedPerGC: An efficient federated learning framework for rice leaf disease classification in the Mekong Delta
   > [no abstract]
01855|Modern Strategies to Assess and Breed Forest Tree Adaptation to Changing Climate
   > Studying the genetics of adaptation to new environments in ecologically and industrially important tree species is currently a major
01856|Identification of critical SARS-CoV-2 amino acids associated with COVID-19 hospitalization rate using machine learning and statistical modeling: An ob
   > severe mutations occur. Furthermore, the methodology and results may be extended to other regions.
01857|Impact of calibrating a low-cost capacitance-based soil moisture sensor on AquaCrop model performance
   > [no term] Sensor data and agro-hydrological modeling have been combined to improve irrigation management. Crop water models simulating crop growth and production in response to the soil-water environment need to be parsimonious
01858|Supervised machine learning and genotype by trait biplot as promising approaches for selection of phytochemically enriched Rhus coriaria genotypes
   > [no term] Sumac is considered as a medicinal and industrial plant. Climate change threats natural ecosystems and hence, evaluation of sumac's genetic diversity, identification of superior genotypes, and conservation of such materials
01859|Automated quantification of lipophagy in Saccharomyces cerevisiae from fluorescence and cryo-soft X-ray microscopy data using deep learning
   > functional NPC proteins can ingest LDs into vacuoles normally but show compromised degradation of LDs and accumulation of lipid vesicles inside vacuoles. This phenotype is
01860|Domain adaptive fruit detection method based on multiple alignments
   > and test samples come from the same domain. This paper proposes a cross-domain fruit detection method with image and feature alignments. It first converts the source domain image into the target domain through an attention-guided generative adversarial network to achieve the image-level alignment. … the yolov5 network to achieve the feature alignment between the source and target domains. A contex
01861|An Innovative Method for Plant Species Classification Utilizing Convolutional Neural Networks
   > large-scale botanical image analysis.Future work will focus on lightweight attention-enhanced architectures and cross-dataset generalization for deployment in resource-constrained environments.
01862|A Comprehensive Survey of Machine Learning and Deep Learning Methods for Rice Crop Disease Detection
   > it examines limitations of current models related to practical implementation, data diversity, domain adaptation, and hardware limitations. Lastly, this survey identifies future research directions to
01863|PlantNet: Scalable Convolutional Neural Network for Image-Based Plant Disease Detection
   > pooling layers, ensuring both depth and performance efficiency. To improve the model's generalizability in real-world conditions, data augmentation techniques—such as random rotations, shifts, and lighting adjustments—are applied
01864|Discriminating natural and planted forests in subtropical China using Sentinel-2 imagery and inventory data at 10 m resolution
   > assessed pixel- and object-based classification models under various sample scenarios, with accuracy independently validated using additional samples interpreted from high-resolution Google Earth imagery. Model evaluation … splits, supplemented with spatially stratified validation across ecological sub-regions to assess spatial generalization. Results show that the object-based random forest class
01865|FROM LAB TO FIELD: A SYSTEMATIC REVIEW OF DOMAIN ADAPTATION FOR ROBUST AGRICULTURAL IMAGE RECOGNITION
   > The domain shift is a critical issue when it comes to the integration of … to be a practical solution to this problem, so models can be transferred across domains. This article presents a comprehensive description of the approaches to
01866|A morphology-based machine learning model for scoring epithelial-mesenchymal plasticity using organelle dynamics
   > human breast cancer cells and lung cancer cells undergoing hypoxia-induced EMT, demonstrating cross-species, cross-inducer, and cross-cancer applicability. The results establish organelle morphology profiling as a
01867|Rule-based training sample generation using Sentinel-2 GCVI time series for winter wheat mapping
   > maps for Hengshui, Kaifeng, and Xiangyang in 2022 and 2023. To evaluate temporal transferability, the automatically generated training samples from 2022 and 2023 were transferred to subsequent years, enabling winter wheat mapping for 2023 and 2024 based on cross-year training data. Accuracy assessments showed that the proposed method achieved high performance, … F1 scores of 91.21% and 90.83%. The
01868|FLAML version 2.3.3 model-based assessment of gross primary productivity at forest, grassland, and cropland ecosystem sites
   > that the effectiveness of FLAML-LUE models for forest ecosystems varied significantly across different sites, with R² values ranging from 0.56 to 0.94. For grassland ecosystems,
01869|CGA-ASNet: an RGB-D amodal segmentation network for restoring occluded tomato regions
   > to realistically simulate tomato morphology and greenhouse environments, and the network was trained on this dataset. To evaluate generalization, CGA-ASNet was tested on both the synthetic and a separate real-world dataset. While no explicit domain adaptation techniques were adopted, diverse lighting conditions (strong, normal, and weak illumination)
01870|Deep Learning-Based Detection of Mango Leaf Diseases Using Convolutional Neural Networks
   > four classes: Healthy, Anthracnose, Red Rust, and Powdery Mildew. To improve model generalization, data augmentation techniques such as rotation and scaling were applied. The dataset … proposed approach is effective for accurate identification of mango leaf diseases under real-world conditions. The developed system has the potential to support farmers and agricultural
01871|A machine learning framework to measure Water Drop Penetration Time (WDPT) for soil water repellency analysis
   > [no term] The heat from wildfires volatilizes soil’s organic compounds which form a waxy layer when condensed on cooler soil particles causing soil to repel water. Timely assessment of soil water repellency
01872|Integrating machine learning and SHAP analysis to boost callus growth and rutin biosynthesis in Capparis spinosa L.
   > [no abstract]
01873|Show me your secret(ed) weapons: a multifaceted approach reveals novel type III-secreted effectors of a plant pathogenic bacterium
   > [no term] Abstract Many Gram-negative plant and animal pathogenic bacteria employ a type III secretion system (T3SS) to secrete protein effectors into the cells of their hosts and promote disease. The plant
01874|Semi-Self-Supervised Learning for Semantic Segmentation in Images with Dense Patterns
   > to train a customized U-Net model for wheat head segmentation. Considering the distribution shift between the simulated and real data, we apply three domain adaptation steps to gradually bridge the domain gap. Only using two annotated … model trained using only two annotated images was evaluated on a diverse external dataset collected from 18 different domains across five countries and achieved a
01875|Machine Learning and Deep Learning Techniques for Weed Detection in Agricultural Fields: Recent Advances, Challenges, and Future Directions
   > size, growth stage variations, class imbalance, motion blur, and geographic or seasonal domain shift. High-priority research directions include cross-domain generalization, diversity of datasets, external validation, uncertainty-aware prediction, open-set recognition, multimodal sensing, self-supervised learning, domain adaptation, lightweight edge inference and integration with robotic or variabl
01876|HybridViT for robust wheat leaf disease detection using CLAHE and attention-based feature fusion
   > detection, persistent challenges such as limited annotated datasets, environmental heterogeneity, and model generalization continue to hinder optimal performance. This study proposes a novel hybrid deep … accuracy on balanced datasets and 99.10% accuracy on complex images captured in real-world conditions, surpassing existing methods. Furthermore, a 5-fold cross-validation strategy yielded an aver
01877|Deep learning uncovers conserved regulatory logic and element dosage underlying stable gene expression in grasses
   > sequence. Models trained in one species accurately predicted CA in rice, with cross-species correlations frequently exceeding 0.70, indicating that the regulatory logic mapping sequence to
01878|An open-set domain adaptation approach for cross-region crop mapping
   > series (SITS). However, DL models trained in one region often fail to generalize across regions due to differences in geographic and ecological conditions. While unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) methods have been proposed to mitigate temporal-spectral shifts, they typically assume that the source and target domains share an identical set of crop types. In practice, crop type … effectiveness of
01879|Changes in urban residential and agricultural sources induce a decrease in PM10 levels in cold clean area: A thirteen-year monitoring at the Longfengs
   > Organization (WMO)/Global Atmosphere Watch (GAW) regional station. The results revealed a significant decrease of 58.02% in PM 10 concentrations in the LFS from 2007 to … environmental policies, and offering a reference for similar studies and forecasts in other regions. • The only atmospheric station in Northeast China is mainly influenced
01880|Precise Identification of Tomato Leaf Diseases: A VMamba-FCS Classification Model Based on Multi-Mechanism Synergistic Enhancement
   > 7.48% improvement in accuracy compared to the basic VMamba model. In the cross-dataset (PlantDoc) generalization test, VMamba-FCS significantly outperformed all comparison models with an accuracy of 71.3%,
01881|Cross-regional estimation of leaf chlorophyll and soil moisture content in drip-irrigated citrus orchards using UAV data and transfer learning
   > of soil moisture content (SMC) and plant nitrogen status. However, the spatial generalization of estimation models for these key parameters remains a major challenge due to environmental heterogeneity. This study developed a transfer learning framework to achieve cross-regional estimation of both leaf chlorophyll content (LCC) and SMC in drip-irrigated citrus … (CLA), CNN-LSTM-Attention-Adaboost (
01882|The yield strikes back: Enhancing the transferability of field scale wheat and barley yield models by leveraging Sentinel-1/2
   > • Proposed strategy to enhance EO-based yield models’ transferability. • Thermal normalization via GDD accumulation is critical. • Developed simple yield … Fusion of Sentinel-1 and −2 just enhances some regional validation. Accurate and transferable crop monitoring from remote sensing remains challenging because vegetation signals are strongly
01883|Estimation of groundwater quality using an integration of water quality index, artificial intelligence methods and GIS: Case study, Central Mediterran
   > groundwater quality indices in unsampled sections of the study area and the other regions with similar conditions.
01884|Improved maize mapping using multi-source data fusion coupled with height-spectral Gaussian mixture modeling
   > underuse prior knowledge, which limits their performance in data-scarce regions and weakens spatiotemporal transferability. To address these challenges, we developed a Height-Spectral Gaussian Mixture Model
01885|A New Method for Counting Reproductive Structures in Digitized Herbarium Specimens Using Mask R-CNN
   > the importance of high-quality human training data. Finally, we also demonstrated the transferability of our model to automated phenophase detection and counting of the three
01886|Greedy Policy Search: A Simple Baseline for Learnable Test-Time Augmentation
   > Test-time data augmentation$-$averaging the predictions of a machine learning\nmodel across multiple augmented samples … are focused on the\ntraining phase. Such techniques are not necessarily optimal for test-time\naugmentation and can be outperformed by a policy consisting of simple crops and\nflips. The primary goal of this paper is to demonstrate that test-time\naugmentation policies can be su
01887|ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORK IN AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION: A LITERATURE REVIEW
   > and evolving policies have led to significant variations in agricultural production across different regions of the country. Crop prediction can be accomplished through the application
01888|Predicting when and why N2O hot moments occur across global agroecosystems with a generalizable, low-input machine learning model
   > [no abstract]
01889|A Survey of Automated Data Augmentation for Image Classification: Learning to Compose, Mix, and Generate
   > Data augmentation is an effective way to improve the generalization of deep learning models. However, the underlying augmentation methods mainly rely on
01890|Multi-level wavelet deep learning for soil property prediction based on multi-platform, multi-modal remote sensing data
   > density, making it difficult to jointly capture within-field heterogeneity while maintaining regional transferability. In addition, multimodal inputs often contain heterogeneous and partially redundant signals, which … of 6.99 g kg −1 . After a simple post-hoc calibration, the external performance improved to R 2 of 0.73 and an RMSE of 6.71 g kg −1 , indicating reasonable transferability under cro
01891|Regional suitability prediction of soil salinization based on remote-sensing derivatives and optimal spectral index
   > Soil salinization is an extremely serious land degradation problem in arid and semi-arid regions that hinders the sustainable development of … soil properties to circumvent the problem of applicability of spectral indices in different regions; (2) Both the Landsat-8 OLI and Sentinel-2A MSI multispectral RS data
01892|Simultaneous illumination and imaging based on a single multimode fiber
   > to reduce the computing complexity significantly. We also demonstrated the ability of cross-domain generalization of the proposed network. The proposed system shows the potential for more compact endoscopic imaging without external illumination.
01893|High-Resolution U-Net: Preserving Image Details for Cultivated Land Extraction
   > cultivated land with both vegetation and non-vegetation cover, and (2) the limited generalization ability for handling a large dataset to apply the model to different locations. However, the "pooling" process in most deep convolutional networks, which attempts
01894|Automated Detection and Classification of Tomato Leaf Diseases Using Convolutional Neural Networks
   > diseased samples. Data preprocessing and augmentation techniques were applied to enhance model generalization and robustness under real-world conditions. The proposed CNN model achieved a classification accuracy of 97.30% on
01895|Identifying Spatiotemporal Patterns in Land Use and Cover Samples from Satellite Image Time Series
   > uses hierarchical clustering to create subclusters that recognize intra-class variability intrinsic to different regions and periods, mainly in large areas and multiple years. To show
01896|AUTOMATED POTATO DEFECT DETECTION AND SORTING USING CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS
   > the conveyor. To enhance model robustness, an extensive dataset was collected under real-world conditions, incorporating manual data augmentation strategies. The hardware design integrates a custom-built
01897|AI-Powered Vocalization Analysis in Poultry: Systematic Review of Health, Behavior, and Welfare Monitoring
   > evaluation protocol inconsistencies, and algorithmic interpretability limitations. Critical knowledge gaps emerge in cross-species domain generalization and contextual acoustic adaptation, demanding urgent research prioritization. The findings underscore … emphasize multi-modal sensor integration, standardized evaluation frameworks, and domain-adaptive models capable of generalizing across diverse
01898|Effects of atmospheric deposition on heavy metal contamination in paddy field systems under different functional areas in ChangZhuTan, Hunan Province,
   > rice grains in regions proximity to factories was significantly higher than in other regions. The human health risk assessment indicated the health risk caused by
01899|Plant MAE-prompt: Lesion-aware Self-supervised Pretraining with Hierarchical Prompt Tuning for Cross-crop Overlapped Disease Detection in Corn and Tom
   > PlantMAE-Prompt has an accuracy of 98.73 on PlantVillage and 78.64 on the cross-domain PlantVillage→PlantDoc setting, +1.11% and +9.22 higher, respectively, and is about 52-fold more
01900|Brain-phenotype predictions can survive across diverse real-world data
   > the opportunity to incorporate neurobiological information, which may be more robust to dataset shifts. Yet, among the minority of neuroimaging studies that undertake any form of external validation, there is a notable lack of attention to generalization across dataset-specific idiosyncrasies. Research settings, by design, remove the between-site variations that … we rigorously test the ability of
01901|Estimating temporal changes in soil carbon stocks at ecoregional scale in Madagascar using remote-sensing
   > dry climates. We estimated SOC stock on 0.1 ha plots for 95 different locations in a 43,000 ha reference area covering both dry and humid
01902|Intelligent mapping of irrigated areas from Landsat 8 images using transfer learning
   > we rely on a transfer learning architecture combining UNet with ResNet50 backbone (trained on 2012 ILSVRC ImageNet dataset) as a baseline after a phase where … we also explored, in the second part of this study, the temporal generalization of the best model.
01903|Resource-Aware Citrus Crop Mapping from Sentinel-2 Time Series Using a Pixel-Set Encoder Convolutional Neural Network for Sustainable Agricultural Mon
   > was benchmarked against PSE-TAE, PSE-Transformer, Random Forest, and XGBoost using spatially grouped data partitioning and temporal test years. Results: The proposed PSE-CNN achieved the highest
01904|Improving soil moisture prediction using a novel encoder-decoder model with residual learning
   > (i.e., different hyper-parameters in EDT-LSTM, different predictive models, different climate regions and different sites) has been widely discussed for the understanding of models’ behavior in
01905|Deep convolutional models for robust multi-crop disease recognition in real-world conditions
   > [no term] Crop diseases significantly reduce agricultural output and are a serious problem, especially in the parts of the world where diagnostic experts are not readily available. Deep learning has recently shown
01906|Floral resource maps: a tool to explain flower-visiting insect abundance at multiple spatial scales
   > and hoverflies) were recorded in organic winter cereal fields. We then fitted Generalized Linear Models (GLMs) to investigate the effects of flower trait variables (pre-selected
01907|AR-CDT NET: a deep deformable convolutional network for gut microbiome-based disease classification
   > representative models across the majority of classification tasks. Importantly, in a stringent cross-dataset generalization test, the model was trained on the highly imbalanced primary multi-disease cohort and validated on relatively balanced independent external cohorts. It achieved a statistically significant AUC of 0.7921 on the highly heterogeneous external T2D cohort, confirming that AR-CDT c
01908|An optimal model using hybrid LCNN- GRU for efficient hyperspectral image classification
   > [no abstract]
01909|Klasifikasi Rumput Liar Menggunakan Deep Learning Dengan Dense Convolutional Neural Network
   > [no term] Weed control research using robots increases productivity in agriculture. Most of the work focused on developing robotics for farmland, ignoring the weed management issues facing pasture farmers. In developing a
01910|Developing an Algorithm to Detect Early Childhood Obesity in Two Tertiary Pediatric Medical Centers
   > medications or comorbid diagnoses were defined. Machine learning algorithms were developed using cross-site training and testing in addition to experimenting with natural language processing features.
01911|Improve State-Level Wheat Yield Forecasts in Kazakhstan on GEOGLAM's EO Data by Leveraging A Simple Spatial-Aware Technique
   > investigate a simple technique called state-wise additive bias to explicitly address the cross-region yield heterogeneity in Kazakhstan. Compared to baseline machine learning models (Random Forest,
01912|Hybrid model for intra-day probabilistic PV power forecast
   > power generation in fixed and single axis tracking PV systems at two different locations. These methods include time-series statistical regression, parametric physical approaches, machine learning … based hybrid model to forecast PV power for different technologies at two different locations.
01913|The power of on-farm data for improved agronomy
   > increasingly available on-farm data to identify yield-limiting factors while minimizing negative environmental externalities at the field-level. To enable the development of such geospatial frameworks in other regions, new partnerships are required to engage stakeholders and promote data sharing
01914|Tracking individual honeybees among wildflower clusters with computer vision-facilitated pollinator monitoring
   > [no term] Abstract Monitoring animals in their natural habitat is essential for advancement of animal behavioural studies, especially in pollination studies. Non-invasive techniques are preferred for these purposes as they reduce opportunities
01915|FrostTR: A calibrated and spatially transferable machine-learning framework for 24-hour agricultural frost forecasting across Türkiye
   > [no abstract]
01916|Performance Evaluation and Cross-Dataset Validation of Machine Learning Algorithms for Crop Disease Identification Using Rice and Maize Leaf Images
   > [no abstract]
01917|Real-time evaluation of glioblastoma growth in patient-specific zebrafish xenografts
   > [no term] Abstract Background Patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models of glioblastoma (GBM) are a central tool for neuro-oncology research and drug development, enabling the detection of patient-specific differences in growth, and in vivo
01918|Limits to the Spatial Transferability of Machine-Learning Models for Farm-Record-Level Maize Yield Prediction in Manabí, Ecuador
   > to overly optimistic estimates of predictive performance and may not adequately reflect generalization to unseen locations. This study evaluated whether supervised machine-learning models could predict farm-level hard dry maize yield in previously unseen parishes of Manabí, Ecuador. The response variable was record-level maize yield, while … insufficient to support reliable yield prediction for in
01919|Machine learning-integrated plant biosensors for precision agriculture: A systematic review of stress detection, pathogen monitoring and smart crop ma
   > challenges are the lack of labelled field datasets, the complexity of making cross-crop models work for all crops and the lack of consistent machine learning
01920|Mapping the maximum peat thickness of cultivated organic soils in the southwest plain of Montreal
   > coefficients of 0.43 and 0.07 for DML and CLT, respectively, using a spatial cross-validation procedure. Interpretation of the drivers of CLT was limited by the
01921|High-content microscopy and machine learning characterize a cell morphology signature of NF1 genotype in Schwann cells
   > applied to a new pair of Schwann cells, the model’s balanced accuracy dropped to 0.5, which is no better than random chance. This performance decline
01922|Comparison of Mask-R-CNN and Thresholding-Based Segmentation for High-Throughput Phenotyping of Walnut Kernel Color
   > provides data similar to human color assessments but offers greater consistency across different years. The thresholding approach offers flexibility and has been applied to other
01923|PLANT SPACING CONTROL FOR POTATO PLANTER BASED ON BP NEURAL NETWORK PID ALGORITHM
   > machines for field trials to validate their effectiveness and engineering applicability under real-world conditions. Field test results indicated that under neural network control, the maximum
01924|Dual-modality fusion for mango disease classification using dynamic attention based ensemble of leaf & fruit images
   > that leverages both leaf and fruit images to improve classification performance and generalization. Individual CNN-based pre-trained models, including ResNet-50, MobileNetV2, EfficientNet-B0, and ConvNeXt, were trained … leaves than on fruits, and vice versa. To address overfitting and improve generalization, a class-aware augmentation pipeline was integrated, which performs augmentation according
01925|Predicting wheat crops nutrient status using multispectral and hyperspectral remote sensing data, machine learning and spatial cross-validation
   > [no term] Предсказание обеспеченности посевов пшеницы макрои микроэлементами по мульти-и гиперспектральным данным дистанционного зондирования с применением методов машинного обучения и пространственной кросс-валидации А. А. Струев 1 , Е. П. Митрофанов 1 ,
01926|A data-driven approach to arsenic classification in groundwater in geothermal Systems: Meta-Analysis and machine learning applications in Western Anat
   > [no abstract]
01927|Temporal Convolution Domain Adaptation Learning for Crops Growth Prediction
   > models. In this paper, we construct an innovative network architecture based on domain adaptation learning to predict crops growth curves with limited available crop data. … to use the temporal convolution filters as the backbone to construct a domain adaptation network architecture which is suitable for deep learning regression models with very limited training data of the target domain. We condu
01928|Calling Phenology of Two Frog Species in South Korean Rice Paddies Using Automated Call Detection
   > Future advances in sound analysis, including the integration of deep-learning algorithms and cross-species detection frameworks, could further improve automated biodiversity monitoring in complex agricultural landscapes.
01929|LIP Reading Using Neural Network and Deep Learning
   > selected for deployment based on superior classification accuracy on the Lip Reading in the Wild (LRW) dataset. The trained model was integrated into a real-time … applications in assistive hearing technology, security and surveillance, and human–computer interaction in audio-degraded environments
01930|Discrimination of sunflower seeds using multispectral and texture dataset in combination with region selection and supervised classification methods
   > The Islamia University of Bahawalpur, Pakistan, into six classes. For preprocessing, a new region-oriented seed-based segmentation was deployed for the automatic selection of regions and
01931|DC-FusionGNN: A Dual-Channel Framework Integrating Global Self-Attention and Local Topology Learning for Identifying Key Resistance Genes Against Fusa
   > achieves competitive and overall improved performance across multiple metrics, and robustness and independent cross-species (rice, GSE39635) experiments further confirm its stability and generalization ability. GO and KEGG enrichment analyses show that the top-ranked candidate genes
01932|Federated Multi-Task Learning for Joint Diagnosis of Multiple Mental Disorders on MRI Scans
   > disorder, and schizophrenia, respectively. <italic>Conclusion:</italic> The proposed framework can effectively ease the domain shift between clients via federated MTL. Significance: The current work provides insights … exploiting the advantageous knowledge shared in related mental disorders for improving the generalization capability of computer-aided detection approaches.
01933|The LANDSUPPORT geospatial decision support system ( S‐DSS ) vision: Operational tools to implement sustainability policies in land planning and manag
   > Nowadays, there is contrasting evidence between the ongoing continuing and widespread environmental degradation and the many means to implement environmental sustainability actions starting from good … we argue that to tackle the above contrasting issues dealing with land degradation, it is very much required to develop and use friendly and freely
01934|Cross-domain generalization for nuclear power plant classification using large language models
   > [no abstract]
01935|Ontology-regularized hierarchical transformers for anatomy and phenotype-aware medical image retrieval
   > are visually similar yet semantically inconsistent, thereby diminishing their diagnostic utility and generalization capability across datasets. To address these challenges, we introduce an ontology-regularized hierarchical … ones. Evaluation was conducted on two large-scale public datasets, MIMIC-CXR as the source domain and VinDr-CXR for cross-dataset testing, with additional experiments on DeepL
01936|Non-Invasive Diagnosis of Nutrient Deficiencies in Winter Wheat and Winter Rye Using Uav-Based Rgb Images
   > [no abstract]
01937|Heterozygous Loss-of-Function SEC61A1 Mutations Cause Autosomal-Dominant Tubulo-Interstitial and Glomerulocystic Kidney Disease with Anemia
   > [no term] Autosomal-dominant tubulo-interstitial kidney disease (ADTKD) encompasses a group of disorders characterized by renal tubular and interstitial abnormalities, leading to slow progressive loss of kidney function requiring dialysis and kidney transplantation.
01938|Predictive Drivers and Spatiotemporal Transferability of Machine Learning Based Crop Yield Prediction Under Drought Conditions
   > [no abstract]
01939|WILD ROSE SPECIES CLASSIFICATION USING TRANSFER LEARNING IN CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORK
   > [no term] Wild roses have gained significant importance in research, particularly in computer vision and deep learning. This study evaluates the performance of seven pre-trained convolutional neural network (CNN) models-DenseNet201, InceptionV3, MobileNet,
01940|Diffusion kernel-based predictive modeling of KRAS dependency in KRAS wild type cancer cell lines
   > several membrane-bound kinases. This raises the question of applications of specific inhibitors independent from the mutational status. Here, we examined CRISPR/RNAi data from over 700
01941|The role of the kynurenine pathway in the pathophysiology of autism-like phenotype induced by maternal inflammation in male mice
   > [no term] Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder with core symptoms that may include deficits in communication, social challenges, and repetitive/stereotyped behavior. The etiology of ASD is not well defined,
01942|Soil total nitrogen content and pH value estimation method considering spatial heterogeneity: Based on GNNW-XGBoost model
   > between spectral reflectance and soil total nitrogen content and pH value in different regions. Using the soil nutrient and visible near-infrared spectral samples collected by
01943|Ai for rice leaf disease detection: benchmarks, bias, optimization, and deployment readiness
   > field-relevant evidence by examining data source, split unit, leakage risk, class imbalance, external validation, computational cost, and agronomic usefulness. The analysis shows that high internal accuracy is common on curated three- or four-class datasets, whereas cross-dataset validation, leakage-resistant splitting, class-wise reporting, severity localization, device-level efficiency metrics, 
01944|UAV‐based deep transfer learning to improve grain yield prediction in winter wheat across temporal and spatial variability
   > and developmental stages of winter wheat ( Triticum aestivum L.). The model's transferability and generalizability were evaluated across years, locations, nurseries, and stage‐specific scenarios. We employed fine‐tuning, which involves retraining a pretrained one‐dimensional convolutional neural network (1D‐CNN) model on scenario‐specific target data to enhance generalizability. Fine‐tuning was te
01945|Multi-Source Time-Series Integration for Progressive In-Season Prediction of Rice Yield, Aboveground Biomass, and Harvest Index
   > in southern New South Wales, Australia, over four growing seasons (2022–2025) using leave-one-year-out cross-validation. Rolling in-season forecasts were evaluated across December–May; March was selected for
01946|A common variant of the CNTNAP2 gene is associated with structural variation in the left superior occipital gyrus
   > [no abstract]
01947|Rare plants detection using a YOLOv3 neural network
   > of correct detection of peonies of 0.93, while using data obtained at different years allows increasing the probability of correct detection to 0.95.
01948|Medium-scale projection of reference evapotranspiration beyond available data using sequential deep learning models: a case study from Bangladesh
   > [no abstract]
01949|Beyond the traditional NDVI index as a key factor to mainstream the use of UAV in precision viticulture
   > model, which provided good performance through an accurate validation step realized in different years and different vineyards.
01950|Short term wind power forecasting using k-nearest neighbour (KNN)
   > is analysed on yearly basis. The wind power analysed is of four different locations. After the selection of location their given data was tested with
01951|Monitoring of free-range rabbits using aerial thermal imaging
   > such as rabbits in the field, 2) assess the rabbit's density at different sites and different periods of the year and 3) record the temporal
01952|Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) for Pest and Disease Detection in Rice Cultivation: A Systematic Review
   > and by outlining open challenges regarding data standardization, smallholder adoption, and model transferability across regions.
01953|Artificial intelligence/machine learning estimation of FAO and ASCE standardized reference ET erodes the physical basis and intended purpose of ET sta
   > of ET ref standardization by embedding local covariances, obscuring error attribution, limiting transferability across space and time, and weakening the institutional knowledge that anchors scientific
01954|A Digital Twin of the terrestrial water cycle: a glimpse into the future through high-resolution Earth observations
   > of such methods will require further advances to assess high-resolution products across different regions and climates; create and integrate compatible multidimensional datacubes, EO data retrieval
01955|Unveiling inter-embryo variability in spindle length over time: Towards quantitative phenotype analysis
   > have the same underlying nature as natural inter-individual differences between wild-type embryos, independently of the temperatures. We thus propose that beyond the apparent complexity of the spindle, only three independent mechanisms account for spindle elongation, weighted differently in the various conditions. Interestingly,
01956|A lightweight SOD-YOLOv5n model-based winter jujube detection and counting method deployed on Android
   > [no abstract]
01957|Using deep learning techniques to detect and classify weeds in Fagopyrum esculentum crops
   > [no term] In recent years, the technology of weed mapping using unmanned aerial vehicles has been actively developing. Determining the location of weeds makes it possible to create task maps for herbicide
01958|Seasonal and Regional Chemical Variability of the Wild Population of Lantana camara Leaf Essential Oil From Kenya
   > [no term] Studies examining the variability in wild plant metabolic expression propose that environmental factors significantly influence the essential oil (EO) quality and quantity in a plant. Lantana camara is a widely
01959|Distribution and Drivers of a Widespread, Invasive Wetland Grass, Phragmites australis, in Wetlands of the Great Salt Lake, Utah, USA
   > [no abstract]
01960|Prediction of habitat suitability for Wild Goat, Capra aegagrus (Erxleben, 1777) in Kavir National Park, Semnan Province, Iran
   > [no term] Habitat with its components is the most important need of wildlife species. So that, habitat management is a critical procedure in wildlife conservation. In the present study, desirable habitats of
01961|Show me your secret(ed) weapons: a multifaceted approach reveals a wide arsenal of type III‐secreted effectors in the cucurbit pathogenic bacterium Ac
   > [no term] Summary The cucurbit pathogenic bacterium Acidovorax citrulli requires a functional type III secretion system (T3SS) for pathogenicity. In this bacterium, as with Xanthomonas and Ralstonia spp., an AraC‐type transcriptional regulator,
01962|Reference data for article: Crop Mapping Without labels: Investigating Temporal and Spatial Transferability of Crop Classification Models Using a 5-ye
   > Reference data for article: Crop Mapping Without labels: Investigating Temporal and Spatial Transferability of Crop Classification Models Using a 5-year Sentinel-2 Series and Machine
01963|A Computer Vision-Based Approach to Estimate Disease Severity for Field-Taken Wild Blueberry Images
   > [no term] Background and Objective: In contrast with the laboratory environment, it is challenging to quickly and accurately rate disease severity in real farming conditions for high-density crops like blueberries.In field-taken images,
01964|Using Sentinel-1 and Sentinel-2 Time Series for Slangbos Mapping in the Free State Province, South Africa
   > in semi-arid ecosystems are known to be the major factors driving land degradation. This study focuses on mapping the distribution of the slangbos shrub (Seriphium … by slangbos encroachment. The estimation of the model accuracy was accomplished via spatial cross-validation (SpCV) and resulted in a classification precision of around 80% for
01965|Predicting ecological regulators of thymol and carvacrol biosynthesis in Oliveria decumbens Vent. using a hybrid ensemble machine learning model (RF+S
   > of determination ( R 2 ), and the concordance correlation coefficient (CCC). Generalized Linear Model (GLM) was applied to identify key environmental variables regulating metabolite … metabolism in dryland plants. The proposed framework, combining RF with SVR-RBF, is transferable across arid environments. These findings support trait-based ecological predictions and offer practical
01966|A Predictive Model for Survival of Escherichia coli O157:H7 and Generic E. coli in Soil Amended with Untreated Animal Manure
   > prediction bound estimates. Cross-validation results indicated that our model can be potentially generalized to other geographic regions and incorporated into a risk assessment for evaluating … associated with application of untreated BSAAO. Our model can be validated for other regions and predictive performance also can be enhanced when data sets from
01967|RNA N6-adenine methylation dynamics impact Hyaloperonospora arabidopsidis resistance in Arabidopsis
   > [no term] In plants, epitranscriptomic mark N6-adenine methylation (m6A) is dynamically regulated in response to environmental cues. However, little is known about m6A dynamics under biotic stresses and their role in environmental
01968|Integrating UAV-Based Multispectral Data and Transfer Learning for Soil Moisture Prediction in the Black Soil Region of Northeast China
   > existing studies predominantly focus on developing models tailored to specific regions. The transferability of these models across different regions remains a considerable challenge. Therefore, this study proposes a transfer learning-based … China as case studies. This framework involves pre-training a model on a source domain and fine-tuning it with a limited set of target domain samples to achie
01969|Predicting the spatial distribution of soil salinity based on multi-temporal multispectral images and environmental covariates
   > soil salinity. Considering the different soil salinization processes, mechanisms, and degrees in different regions, various environmental covariates related to soil salinization, such as topography, groundwater, soil, vegetation, and climate, are incorporated to enhance the generalizability and interpretability of the prediction model. The study area is in the … on mono-temporal images, with an R 
01970|Maize Tasseling Stage Automated Observation Method via Semantic Enhancement and Context Occlusion Learning
   > To assess the effectiveness of the proposed method, we curated an open cross-domain MTS dataset, encompassing seven image series of continuous four-year sequences. Extensive experiments
01971|Garlic yield monitoring using vegetation indices and texture features derived from UAV multispectral imagery
   > world. The aim of this study was to develop an accurate and transferable machine learning model to monitor and to estimate garlic yield using unmanned … bulb estimation using the aboveground biomass as a proxy. To evaluate the transferability of the RF models, two cross-validation strategies were compared: a nested leave-one-fold-out cross-validation (LOFOCV) and a leave-one-year-out cross-validat
01972|Predictive Power of a Radiomic Signature Based on 18F-FDG PET/CT Images for EGFR Mutational Status in NSCLC
   > [no term] Radiomics has become an area of interest for tumor characterization in 18F-Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/computed tomography (18F-FDG PET/CT) imaging. The aim of the present study was to demonstrate how imaging
01973|The use of multisource spatial data for determining the proliferation of stingless bees in Kenya
   > statistics (TSS) = 0.91) and ranger (TSS = 0.90) and “good” for generalized additive models (TSS = 0.87), multivariate adaptive regression spline (TSS = 0.80),
01974|Identifying kinematic biomarkers of the dystrophic phenotype in a zebrafish model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy
   > [no term] BACKGROUND: Dystrophin-deficient zebrafish larvae are a small, genetically tractable vertebrate model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy that is well suited for early-stage therapeutic development. However, current approaches for evaluating their mobility,
01975|Vision Transformers Enable Advanced Plant Phenotyping in Controlled Environments
   > binary segmentation. Models were evaluated on a held-out test set and a generalization set that comprised unseen species. On the held-out test set, thresholding, the best U-Net, and the … achieved mean Dice scores of 58.3, 96.6, and 97.3, respectively. On the generalization set, the corresponding Dice scores were 56.5, 86.2, and 95.7. Thresholding remained
01976|Agroforestry mapping using multi temporal hybrid CNN+LSTM framework with landsat 8 satellite imagery and google earth engine
   > accurately classify and estimate the LULC, particularly mapping the agroforest plantation for other regions across the country.
01977|Using Artificial Intelligence to Identify Suitable Artificial Groundwater Recharge Areas for the Iranshahr Basin
   > managers looking to address the problem of groundwater depletion in Iranshahr and other regions facing similar challenges. Future research in this area could explore the applicability of our approach to other regions and examine the potential economic benefits of using AGR to recharge
01978|Pulse transfer learning: Multi-area river ammonia nitrogen prediction with limited data
   > [no abstract]
01979|Multi-modal learning for geospatial vegetation forecasting
   > also maintains compatibility with the existing satellite imagery forecasting dataset EarthNet2021, enabling cross-dataset model comparisons. Our extensive qualitative and quantitative analyses reveal that our methods
01980|MSP-Net: An Effective Multi-Scale Feature-Aware Detection Network for the Detection of Tomato Leaf Diseases
   > by 10.5%, and is successfully deployed on the RK3588 edge platform. Additional cross-dataset experiments on PASCAL VOC and MS COCO evaluate the transferability of the proposed architectural refinements to generic object detection tasks.
01981|Data generation using Pix2Pix to improve YOLO v8 performance in UAV-based Yuzu detection
   > removed, and the training targets are the original images. Subsequently, we created new regions of interest on the images of fruit trees and used the
01982|Evaluation of agricultural tourism competitiveness based on improved genetic neural network
   > and a weighted scoring method is used to evaluate the competitiveness of different regions. The results show that the improved genetic neural network model is
01983|Gravity-Informed Deep Learning Framework for Predicting Ship Traffic Flow and Invasion Risk of Non-Indigenous Species via Ballast Water Discharge
   > [no abstract]
01984|Deep Internal Learning for Inpainting of Cloud-Affected Regions in Satellite Imagery
   > explored in these applications; however, the majority of reported solutions rely on external learning practices, i.e., models trained on fixed datasets. Although these models perform well within the context of … a significant risk of spatial and temporal overfitting exists when applied in different locations or at different times. Here, cloud removal was implemented within an
01985|Spatial distribution and environmental interpretation of wild Sinojackia xylocarpa communities based on self-organizing map (SOM)
   > [no term] A self-organizing map (SOM) based on field investigations was adopted to analyze the numerical classification and ordination of wild Sinojackia xylocarpa communities in the Nanjing Laoshan Forest Park in hopes
01986|Artificial Intelligence-Based Crop Recommendation Using Soil and Climate Data: A Comprehensive Review of Machine Learning, Deep Learning, and Smart Ag
   > or k-fold cross-validation; among the studies examined in full, only one tested spatial cross-validation, reporting a substantial performance decline (AUC 0.89 to 0.55–0.62) relative to
01987|Multi-kernel feature extraction with dynamic fusion and downsampled residual feature embedding for predicting rice RNA N6-methyladenine sites
   > \usepackage{upgreek} \usepackage{mathrsfs} \setlength{\oddsidemargin}{-69pt} \begin{document} $^{6}$\end{document}ARice outperforms comparison methods in cross-validation, same- and cross-species independent test sets, demonstrating good robustness and generalization. The application on maize m\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} \usepackage{amsmath} \usepackage{wasysym} \usepackage{amsfonts} \usepackage
01988|AI-Driven Plant Disease and Pest Surveillance: Deep Learning, IoT, and Next-Generation Crop Protection
   > major developments in convolutional neural networks, object detection, semantic segmentation, transfer learning, domain adaptation, transformer-based computer vision, anomaly detection, environmental time-series modelling, and multimodal analytics. … obstacles that still limit real-world deployment, including dataset bias, annotation uncertainty, poor cross-domain generalisation, limited interoper
01989|Enhanced weed and crop species classification using optimized machine learning and ensemble techniques
   > [no term] Abstract Accurate identification of weed and crop species is essential for implementing precision agriculture practices that minimize chemical usage and improve yield. This study presents an advanced machine learning framework
01990|Deep Gaussian mixture adaptive network for robust soft sensor modeling with a closed-loop calibration mechanism
   > [no abstract]
01991|Enhanced methane monitoring: a globally harmonized daily 0.1 ° XCH 4 through machine learning-based fusion of GOSAT, GOSAT-2, and TROPOMI
   > three-step machine-learning (ML) approach: (1) sensor-specific bias correction using TCCON observations, (2) cross-sensor harmonization to GOSAT-2, the sensor with the strongest post-correction TCCON agreement, and … trained with satellite retrieval parameters to reduce systematic biases and inter-sensor discrepancies. Independent validation at three withheld TCCON stations demonstrates robust gen
01992|Investment in science can mitigate the negative impacts of land use on declining primate populations
   > 2015 on primate population persistence in China. We analyzed these data using generalized mixed-effects models, structural equation models (SEM) and random forests (a machine learning
01993|Large-scale forecasting of Heracleum sosnowskyi habitat suitability under the climate change on publicly available data
   > bias in CSP data by optimising the sampling size and implementing a spatial cross-validation scheme. According to the Random Forest model built on the finally
01994|Automatic Segmentation and Counting of Roosting Common Cranes (Grus Grus) Using Uav Thermal Images, Computer Vision, and Machine Learning in the Hula 
   > [no abstract]
01995|Variation in fruits and seeds traits of Saba senegalensis (A. DC.) Pichon along a climatic gradient in Burkina Faso, West Africa: implications for its
   > [no abstract]
01996|Spatial Distribution and Influencing Factors of Daylily Cultivation in the Farming–Pastoral Ecotone of Northern China
   > were identified as the most significant influencing factors. Further analysis of the different regions revealed the importance of industry support policies and technical training. This
01997|An uncertainty-aware evaluation framework based on hierarchical vision transformers for robust cross-domain plant leaf disease classification
   > detection is a critical task in precision agriculture, where reliable diagnosis under real-world conditions is essential for reducing crop losses and supporting timely intervention. Although deep learning models have achieved high classification accuracy, their performance often degrades under domain shift between controlled laboratory datasets and real-field environments, while predictive uncerta
01998|Soil organic carbon and total nitrogen predict large-scale distribution of soil fungal communities in temperate and alpine shrub ecosystems
   > diversity, shrub aboveground biomass (AGB), and soil properties showed varying differences among different sites. Soil fungal community diversity was the highest in Huangyuan and Guide,
01999|A Hierarchical Deep Learning Framework for Robust Cassava Crop Verification and Disease Diagnosis
   > [no abstract]
02000|Efficient Pipeline for Automating Species ID in new Camera Trap Projects
   > Camera traps are heat- or motion-activated cameras placed in the wild to monitor and investigate animal populations and behavior. They are … al. 2018), but further analysis has shown that these results do not generalize to new cameras or new geographic regions (Beery et al. 2018). Additionally, these models will fail to recognize any species they were not trained on. In theory, it is possible to r
02001|Microbial Differences Accurately Identifies Global SERT KO Phenotype in Mice
   > [no term] Abstract Altered serotonin signaling is a well-established contributor to depression, with the serotonin transporter gene (SERT) playing a critical role in regulating serotonin reuptake. Mice lacking SERT (SERT -/-) serve
02002|From Sparse to Refined Samples: Iterative Enhancement-Based PDLCM for Multi-Annual 10 m Rice Mapping in the Middle-Lower Yangtze
   > 96.8% and an F1 score of 0.88, demonstrating strong spatial and temporal generalization. All datasets and source codes are publicly accessible, supporting SDG 2 and providing a transferable paradigm for operational large-scale crop mapping.
02003|Attention-Guided Discriminative Region Localization and Label Distribution Learning for Bone Age Assessment
   > then crop the informative local regions from the original image and aggregate different regions for BAA. Instead of taking BAA as a general regression task,
02004|Lightweight Vision Transformer Compression for On-Device Plant Disease Detection in Resource-Constrained Agricultural Field Conditions
   > most effective configuration within each compression family, each technique is first evaluated independently through controlled ablation studies, after which the best-performing components are integrated into … constraints. On a chilli 3-class village-split dataset with a genuine cross-village, cross-device out-of-distribution test split, the resulting compressed models match or exceed the 95.13% 
02005|Assessing the Temporal Transferability of Random Forest Models for Land Use and Land Cover Change Detection
   > baseline model was then applied across the time series to assess its temporal transferability, overcoming the limitation of up-to-date ground-truth data. The baseline model achieved … results of the study highlight that, although applying a single-year model without independent annual validation data causes certain uncertainties—arising from methods, sensors, or topography (e.g.,
02006|A Review of Cross-Domain Time-Series Forecasting in Agriculture
   > This review synthesizes published research on cross-domain time-series forecasting in agriculture, focusing on transfer learning frameworks, domain adaptation, and multimodal data integration. Transfer learning approaches, including fine-tuning, adversarial networks, … error reductions up to 28% and R 2 improvements up to 46%. Domain adaptation techniques, such as partial adversarial alignment, mi
02007|Multimodal remote sensing combination for maize LAI estimation: Stacking model development and phenology-specific feature sensitivity analysis
   > feature sensitivity. Results indicate that: (1) The proposed Stacking model exhibited superior generalization capabilities and cross-year stability across six growth stages over two years (R 2 = 0.808–0.849,
02008|Climate change adaptation of smallholders on the Tibetan plateau under government interventions
   > [no abstract]
02009|New achievements on daily reference evapotranspiration forecasting: Potential assessment of multivariate signal decomposition schemes
   > ET o can generate large deficits in soil moisture and runoff in different regions and seasons, leading to uncertainties in drought warning systems. A novel
02010|Hyperspectral imaging and machine learning to classify herbicide-resistant and -susceptible weeds in field crops
   > [no term] The increasing prevalence of herbicide-resistant weeds in western Canada continues to reduce crop yields, increase herbicide expenditures, and threaten farm profitability. Knowledge-based integrated weed management strategies are necessary to mitigate
02011|Evaluation of Scale Effect of Fragmented Agricultural Land Transfer Based on Neural Network
   > resource endowments and production conditions, the scale effect of land transfer in different regions presents significant differences. On this basis, it is proposed that the
02012|Multi-stage Deep Learning Model-Based Plant Leaf Disease Diagnosis for Sustainable Crop Health Monitoring
   > [no abstract]
02013|Multivariate Drought Forecasting in Short- and Long-Term Horizons Using MSPI and Data-Driven Approaches
   > this study, the accuracy of four artificial intelligence (AI) methods, including the generalized regression neural network (GRNN), least-square support vector machine (LSSVM), group method of … AIs have promising results, and this research can be extended for the other regions.
02014|Genetic diversity of weedy rice (Oryza sativa f. spontanea) populations in Sri Lanka: An application of Self Organizing Map (SOM)
   > [no term] Abstract. Weerakoon SR, Somaratne S. 2021. Genetic diversity of weedy rice (Oryza sativa f. spontanea) populations in Sri Lanka: An application of Self Organizing Map (SOM). Asian J Agric 5:
02015|Smart Disease Detector in Crops: A Deep Learning-Based Approach for Automated Plant Disease Identification
   > can substitute for transfer learning when bandwidth or policy constraints prevent downloading external backbones, enabling classroom, extension, and field deployments. The paper details dataset preparation, … common failure modes, and concludes with limitations and a roadmap for higher-resolution, field-domain generalization and efficient on-device inference.
02016|TLCp-SNN: A Dual-Branch Framework Integrating Transfer Learning-based Feature Selection with Spiking Neural Networks for Robust Mixed Crop Weed Classi
   > to achieve strong multiclass classification of weeds.The TLCp branch takes advantage of cross-domain knowledge transfer to yield statistically optimal discriminative features selection.The SNN branch uses … from SNN; 268 + 144 = 412), classified by an Extra Trees ensemble.Domain shift is quantified through proxy A-distance on all sourcetarget pairs, confirming TLCp
02017|Habitat preferences, spatial distribution and current population status of endangered giant flower Amorphophallus titanum
   > [no abstract]
02018|Combining discrete wavelet decomposition with soft computing techniques to predict monthly evapotranspiration in semi-arid Hakkâri province, Türkiye
   > [no abstract]
02019|BMDNet-YOLO: A Lightweight and Robust Model for High-Precision Real-Time Recognition of Blueberry Maturity
   > and boost inference speed. Additionally, a three-stage transfer learning framework (source-domain pretraining, cross-domain adaptation, and target-domain fine-tuning) improves generalization. Experiments on 8,250 field-collected and augmented images show BMDNet-YOLO achieves 95.6% mAP@0.5,
02020|Learning to Holistically Detect Bridges From Large-Size VHR Remote Sensing Imagery
   > and HBB tasks, and validate the effectiveness of the proposed HBD-Net. Additionally, cross-dataset generalization experiments on two publicly available datasets illustrate the strong generalization capability of the GLH-Bridge dataset.
02021|Biotic and Abiotic Sources of Stress on Wild Rocket Classified by Leaf-image Hyperspectral Data Mining With an Artificial Intelligence Model
   > under intensive cultivation systems devoted to ready-to-eat salad chain, increasing needs for external inputs. Early detection of the abiotic and biotic stresses by using digital
02022|Resource-Aware Citrus CropMapping from Sentinel-2 Time Series Using a Pixel-Set Encoder Convolutional Neural Network for Sustainable Agricultural Moni
   > was benchmarked against PSE-TAE, PSE-Transformer, Random Forest, and XGBoost using spatially grouped data partitioning and temporal test years. Results: The proposed PSE-CNN achieved the highest
02023|Single-Season Rice Area Mapping by Combining Multi-Temporal Polarization Decomposition Components and the Two-Stage Segmentation Method
   > user accuracy was 84.19% on the field survey data. Furthermore, experiments with different years and regions also proved the effectiveness and stability of the proposed
02024|The Ink4a/Arf locus operates as a regulator of the circadian clock modulating RAS activity
   > [no term] The mammalian circadian clock and the cell cycle are two major biological oscillators whose coupling influences cell fate decisions. In the present study, we use a model-driven experimental approach to
02025|Predicting gene regulatory networks from multi-omics to link genetic risk variants and neuroimmunology to Alzheimer’s disease phenotypes
   > Hippocampus, Dorsolateral Prefrontal Cortex (DLPFC), Lateral Temporal Lobe (LTL). Comparative analyses revealed cross-region-conserved and region-specific GRNs, in which many immunological genes are present. For instance,
02026|Areca Yellow Leaf Disease Severity Monitoring Using UAV-Based Multispectral and Thermal Infrared Imagery
   > nonlinear fit was performed using CT versus SAYD. Cross-validation was performed on different regions, and the results showed that the R2 value between the predicted
02027|Comprehensive Review of Machine Learning and Deep Learning Methods for Plant Disease Detection via PlantVillage Dataset
   > recent transformer-based architectures. Various methods are compared in terms of classification accuracy, generalization ability, computational efficiency, and robustness. In the survey we have identified that … challenges related to real-field deployment. Finally, future research directions are highlighted, including domain adaptation, explainable artificial intelligence, multi-disease recognitio
02028|Systematic Literature Review on the Application of Convolutional Neural Networks for Rambutan Fruit Classification: Advances, Challenges, and Future D
   > Neighbor (KNN). However, limitations include restricted dataset diversity and insufficient testing under real-world conditions. Recommendations for future research emphasize the need for larger, more diverse
02029|Relations of land cover, topography, and climate to fire occurrence in natural regions of Iran: Applying new data mining techniques for modeling and m
   > were created using several new data-mining algorithms including support vector machine (SVM), generalized linear model (GLM), functional data analysis (FDA), and random forest (RF). All … danger maps in the forests of western Iran, or in forests of other regions with similar conditions.
02030|Field Assessment Strategies: Assessing and Classifying Blight Disease in Wild Blueberry Populations Using Multispectral and Hyperspectral Sensors
   > [no term] (1) Background: Monilinia and Botrytis blight are significant diseases affecting wild blueberry fields, leading to substantial yield losses. Traditional methods for disease assessment rely on destructive sampling, which is labor-intensive
02031|When machine learning extrapolates in space: How local data shape spatial transferability
   > Motivated by the east–west spread of Xylella fastidiosa , we introduce a spatial transfer evaluation scheme that assesses predictive performance in previously unobserved regions under
02032|Multisource fingerprinting for region identification of walnuts in Xinjiang combined with chemometrics
   > techniques were employed to extract characteristic fingerprint information of walnuts from the different regions of Xinjiang. Analysis was conducted using near‐ and mid‐infrared spectroscopy, fatty … this research, we provided a feasible method to differentiate the walnut from different regions based on multiple fingerprinting and geographic traceability techniques, which could be
02033|UPGMA and artificial neural networks applications on wild type olives
   > intuitive algorithm application was performed on seven wild type olives grown in different regions of Turkey by using data obtained from twenty-two ISSR primers.UPGMA dendrograms
02034|Early Diagnosis of Tomato Plant Diseases Using Deep Learning and Image Analysis
   > [no term] Tomato is one of the global consumption for food. Tomato plants are very much susceptable to viruses, fungal and bacterial infections leading to various dieases. Traditional methods for detecting the
02035|Plant Disease Detection Using Deep Learning
   > achieve the best validation accuracy (97.98%), outperforming traditional CNNs in terms of generalization. We also discuss deployment challenges in real-world conditions and propose future directions for lightweight IoT-based systems.
02036|A Review on Machine Learning Model for Predicting Maize Crop Yield in Semi-Arid Regions
   > optimizing agricultural resource use in the face of climate change and land degradation. Machine learning (ML) models are able to capture the non-linear dynamics in … and region specific dependencies. This review critically assesses the strengths, limitations and generalizability of hybrid ML models for yield forecasting of maize in semi arid
02037|Multi-objective optimization for smart cities: a systematic review of algorithms, challenges, and future directions
   > search display superior adaptability in high-dimensional, dynamic environments. Persistent challenges include limited cross-domain generalisability, inadequate uncertainty handling, and low interpretability of artificial intelligence (AI)-assisted models. Twelve
02038|Intelligent multi-severity nuclear accident identification under transferable operation conditions
   > [no abstract]
02039|Mapping rapeseed in China during 2017-2021 using Sentinel data: an automated approach integrating rule-based sample generation and a one-class classif
   > phenological calendar were used for classification to eliminate the phenology differences in different regions. Third, a specific sample augmentation that removes the observation in the flowering period was employed to improve the generalization to the pixels without cloud-free observation in the flowering period. Finally, to
02040|Robust Rice Variety Classification Using MobileNetV2 Under Real- World Conditions for Agricultural Edge Devices
   > [no abstract]
02041|High-throughput phenotyping for climate-resilient forests: integrating multi-sensor fusion and root-shoot dynamics
   > segmentation and stress classification, although their performance remains constrained by overfitting, limited transferability, and domain shift across forest types in analyzing complex forest canopies. A major limitation
02042|Enhanced Crop Row Detection Techniques for Autonomous Agricultural Vehicle: A Comparative Analysis of Classical and Deep Learning Approaches
   > performance and accuracy. Field trials are planned to test these results in real-world conditions.
02043|From Foundation Embeddings to Cropland Maps: Label Efficiency, Temporal Transferability and Independent Human Validation
   > pixels are spatially autocorrelated, this result concerns pixel-sample efficiency rather than 60,000 independent annotation sites. In a same-region transfer experiment, classifiers trained in one year
02044|Mathematical modeling of wastewater-derived biodegradable dissolved organic nitrogen
   > in sensitive receiving waters, DON becomes problematic and needs to be reduced. Biodegradable DON (BDON) is a portion of DON that is biologically degradable by bacteria when the optimum environmental conditions are met. BDON in a … adaptive neuro-fuzzy inference systems, multilayer perceptron, radial basis neural networks (RBNN), and generalized regression neural networks. Nitrite, nitrate, ammoni
02045|A Comprehensive Image Dataset of Fruit and Leaf Diseases Across Six Horticultural Crops for Deep Learning Applications
   > [no abstract]
02046|SevenNet: rethinking convolutional neural networks with a formula-based architecture
   > [no abstract]
02047|Mapping the Spatial Transferability of Knowledge-Guided Machine Learning: Application to the Prediction of Drain Flow Fraction
   > traction in hydrological sciences for predicting variables at large scales. Yet, the spatial transferability of these ML methods remains a critical yet underexamined aspect. We … the 45 drain catchments used for training, calling for an assessment of spatial transferability. To map transferability of the model, and distinguish areas where metamodel results are reliable or
02048|Determining spatio-temporal distribution of bee forage species of Al-Baha region based on ground inventorying supported with GIS applications and Remo
   > low (<30%) with low Shannon’s species diversity indices (H′) of 0.5–1.52 for different sites. Based on the eco-climatological factors and the variations in their flowering
02049|Structured neural network model reveals how resettler perceptions influence agricultural effectiveness
   > assume linear responses, such assumptions may overlook how displaced farmers adapt to new environments. We propose a hybrid SEM-BP model integrating Structural Equation Modelling with
02050|A 30-meter terrace mapping in China using Landsat 8 imagery and digital elevation model based on the Google Earth Engine
   > Our terrace mapping algorithm can be used to map large-scale terraces in other regions globally, and our terrace map will serve as a landmark for
02051|Disease Detection in Agriculture using Deep Learning
   > we discuss the major challenges facing real-world deployment, including limited labeled datasets, domain adaptation to field conditions, computational requirements, and the need for model explainability.
02052|Crop Protection Against Wild Animal and Alert System using Deep Learning
   > [no term] A crop's vulnerability to animal assaults exists. Protecting agricultural areas is a difficult task these days. It is imperative to search for any critters that might have a more detrimental
02053|Oilseed Flax Yield Prediction in Arid Gansu, China Using a CNN–Informer Model and Multi-Source Spatio-Temporal Data
   > under heterogeneous environmental conditions. Model robustness was further verified through fivefold county-based spatial cross-validation, indicating stable performance and strong generalization capability in unseen regions. Overall, the proposed CNN–Informer framework provides a reliable and interpretable solution
02054|A COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW OF OBJECT DETECTION IN ANIMAL AND PLANT USING VISION TRANSFORMER
   > potential in object detection.However, the field of ViT-based detectors remains fragmented, with independent advances in plant and animal studies and a lack of comprehensive analysis … practitioners, this review offers a unified framework to understand ViT-based detection.It pinpoints cross-domain challenges and concludes with a forward-looking pathway to turn these insights into
02055|Phenomic Versus Genomic Prediction - A Comparison of Prediction Accuracies for Grain Yield in Hard Winter Wheat Lines
   > ≤ 0.48) than GEBVs produced by gBLUP ( r̄ = 0.35). In leave-one-year-out forward validation using only multispectral data for 2020 and 2021, PPEs from
02056|Characterization, geostatistical modeling and health risk assessment of potentially toxic elements in groundwater resources of northeastern Iran
   > that can be applied to the identification of large-scale contamination sources in other regions. An existing dataset of georeferenced water quality parameters from 676 locations
02057|An agronomically informed framework for temporally transferable yield prediction
   > broader applicability. Methods This study introduces an agronomically informed framework for temporally transferable yield prediction that combines optimal phenological moment (OPM) selection with a spatial … derived from satellite imagery acquired at physiologically meaningful crop stages and on independently known field-scale production values to guide spatial yield allocation. The method was
02058|Impaired learning, memory, and extinction in posttraumatic stress disorder: translational meta-analysis of clinical and preclinical studies
   > as far as applicable, between clinical and preclinical phenotypes. We hypothesized that cross-species, neutral versus emotional/fearful information processing is, respectively, impaired and enhanced in PTSD. … rodents but not humans. Impaired neutral learning/memory and fear extinction show stable cross-species PTSD phenotypes. These could be targeted for novel PTSD treatments, using information g
02059|Deep neural network analysis and risk identification of international agricultural trade time series data
   > and their selection can be influenced by subjective factors. To address the domain generalization problem in agricultural trade time series data, this paper proposes an
02060|Generalization of multiple depths soil temperature estimation using LSTM and CNN
   > but also the used modeling approaches are prone to modeling errors nor generalization, especially at deeper depths. The main purpose of this study was to assess generalizability of trained deep learning model in multi-depth ST estimation in different land … of trained DL model in multiple depths ST time series estimation of other regions with same condition was evaluated to assess its generalizati
02061|Portable real-time crop health assessment for diseases and nutrient issues with lightweight neural networks and RGB captures
   > and coordinate attention, optimized for efficient edge deployment; and (iii) a crop transferability index (CTI), a single scalar index, to quantify cross-crop generalization. This framework leveraged eight transfer‑learning CNNs to detect 34 stress classes across … to their lower computational cost. However, expanding work on zero-shot and unsupervised domain adaptation is needed, as Fréchet incep
02062|ADAPTIVE MACHINE LEARNING TECHNIQUES FOR CROP PRODUCTION IN INDIA
   > models can adapt to India's dynamic agricultural landscape using transfer learning and domain adaptation techniques to mitigate data scarcity and distribution shifts.It delves into a spectrum of machine learning models, both classical and
02063|Foundation for unbiased cross-validation of spatio-temporal models for Species Distribution Modeling
   > the validity of performance estimates. When SDMs are intended for spatial or temporal transfer, random CV can lead to overoptimistic performance estimates due to spatial … extensive hyperparameter tuning within each CV scheme. Model skill was assessed on independent, out-of-time test sets using AUC, MAE, and correlation metrics. Random splits overstated
02064|INVESTIGATION OF CORRELATION BETWEEN WINTER WHEAT YIELD AND PRECIPITATION BY NEURAL NETWORK
   > then the optimal models are selected to forecast winter wheat yields for future years.
02065|Convolutional Neural Network for Methane Prediction in Anaerobic Reactors of Domestic Sewage
   > [no abstract]
02066|Crop recommendation with machine learning: leveraging environmental and economic factors for optimal crop selection
   > 99.96%, SVM: 94.71%) but raised overfitting concerns. Introducing temporal order, better reflecting real-world conditions, reduced performance (RF: 78.55%, SVM: 71.18%) in the Time-series Split.To further
02067|Improving Generalization of Deep Learning for Glaucoma Classification Under Real-World Domain Shift via Unsupervised Domain Adaptation
   > Purpose: To develop and evaluate an unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) framework for glaucoma classification from fundus images that improves the generalizability of deep learning (DL) models across heterogeneous imaging characteristics and clinical settings. Methods: We developed an adversarial UDA framework that adapts a labeled source domain to an unlabeled target domain by jointly optimizing
02068|Consumer-grade UAV imagery facilitates semantic segmentation of species-rich savanna tree layers
   > models on an 18-ha training area and explored whether models could be transferred across space and time. These models could recognise trees in adjacent (mean … 0.61) alike. Over time, a change in plant morphology resulted in a decrease of model accuracy. Our results show that CNN-based tree mapping using consumer-grade
02069|Distribution of geogenic arsenic in European topsoil and potential concerns for food safety
   > was used to identify key predictors, which may also be relevant in other regions globally. The high-resolution As map offers valuable insights for agricultural and
02070|An inverse method for watershed change detection using hybrid conceptual and artificial intelligence approaches
   > severity of LULC changes by prediction of SC values in the coming future years. For validation of the method, a comparison was also performed between … from 1990 to 2013 were aligned with the SC reduction e.g., 26% decrease of SC for downstream sub-watershed versus 53% decrease and 21% increase of forest and crop lands, respectively.
02071|Practical Evaluation of UAV Flight Altitude for Rice Growth-Stage Classification Using NDVI Images and Convolutional Neural Networks
   > only 8 of the 25 observation dates. In addition, when the model trained only on simulated-altitude images was applied to actual-altitude images, the accuracy at 100 m decreased to 0.5%, indicating a strong domain shift between simulated and actual high-altitude imagery. These results suggest that higher-altitude
02072|Dynamics of spatial relationships among ecosystem services and their determinants: Implications for land use system reform in Northwestern China
   > regional scale. Specially, the hotspots of food production and carbon sequestration both decreased in the northern part over time, while the former one was caused … fixation, which was mainly impacted by the increasing impact of topography and decreasing impact of climate factors. Thus hotspots of sand fixation increased in the mountainous areas and decreased in other regions. Socio-economic facto
02073|Global quantitative synthesis of effects of biotic and abiotic factors on stemflow production in woody ecosystems
   > [no term] Abstract Aim Stemflow has been increasingly recognized as an indispensable component in water and nutrient budgets within vegetated ecosystems. Here we aim to quantify the stemflow percentage (St, %) of
02074|The development progress of multi-array colourimetric sensors based on the M13 bacteriophage
   > [no term] Techniques for detecting chemicals dispersed at low concentrations in air continue to evolve. These techniques can be applied not only to manage the quality of agricultural products using a post-ripening
02075|Epistemic and aleatoric uncertainty in optical vegetation trait retrieval: Concepts, Methods, and Outlook
   > algorithms. We further review diagnostics (coverage, scoring rules, reliability diagrams, probability-integral-transform histograms), out-of-distribution detection, and strategies to reduce epistemic uncertainty via active learning, domain adaptation, and improved priors and models. Looking ahead, upcoming optical ESA missions
02076|Matching individual Ladoga ringed seals across short-term image sequences
   > [no term] Abstract Automated wildlife reidentification has attracted increasing attention in recent years as it provides a non-invasive tool to identify and to track individual wild animals over time. In this paper,
02077|Groundwater salinity in the Horn of Africa: Spatial prediction modeling and estimated people at risk
   > the input data, balancing classes, performing many iterations, specifying cut-off values, employing spatial cross-validation, and identifying spatial uncertainties. RESULTS Estimates are made for this transboundary
02078|CropNet++ViT: An Efficient Hybrid CNN-Vision Transformer for Uncertainty-Aware Fruit Quality Assessment and Grading in Smart Agriculture
   > [no abstract]
02079|MACNet: A More Accurate and Convenient Pest Detection Network
   > content-based feature sampling strategy to obtain richer object feature information, and adopts distribution shifting convolution technology, which not only improves the accuracy of detection but
02080|Spatial transferability of machine and deep learning models for reference evapotranspiration estimation: Implications for climate-smart irrigation wat
   > data-constrained regions. This study presents the first systematic evaluation combining spatial model transferability with progressively reduced input configurations for ET₀ prediction across contrasting agro-climatic zones … Machine, Artificial Neural Network (ANN), and Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) — were trained on 20-year daily data (2000–2019) from subtropical humid Mymensingh and transf
02081|Spray Quality Assessment on Water-Sensitive Paper Comparing AI and Classical Computer Vision Methods
   > within vegetation, offering a tool for farmers to assess spray quality in real-world conditions. To achieve this, two approaches were explored: classical computer vision techniques
02082|A Comprehensive Survey of Animal Identification: Exploring Data Sources, AI Advances, Classification Obstacles and the Role of Taxonomy
   > [no term] With the rapid development of entity recognition technology, animal recognition has gradually become essential in modern society, supporting labour‐intensive agriculture and animal husbandry tasks. Severe problems such as maintaining biodiversity
02083|Operationalizing GIS and Machine Learning across Contrasting Cropping Systems
   > [no abstract]
02084|A Comprehensive Evaluation of Convolutional Neural Networks: Performance, Generalization, Robustness and Computational Efficiency
   > [no abstract]
02085|Does geographical variation confound the relationship between host factors and the human gut microbiota: a population-based study in China
   > health but is also known to be highly diverse between populations from different regions. Yet most studies inadequately account for this regional diversity in their … geographic variation is an essential factor that should be explicitly considered when generalising microbiota-based models to host phenotype across different populations.
02086|A new modeling environment for integrated dairy system management
   > system in terms of its individual components and their interactions with one another (France and Kebreab, 2008). For example, Dijkstra (1994) developed a dynamic mechanistic … growing streams of sensor data collected on farms for improved whole-farm decision-making. Another key advantage of the adaptable, modular nature of the model is that
02087|Prediction of Chromium Content in Farmland Soil Around Plateau Mining Areas Based on Convolutional Neural Networks and Generalization Performance Stud
   > order to improve the accuracy of the prediction model and increase the generalization ability of the prediction model. In this study, a total of 121 … and 62 soil Vis–NIR samples in downstream are used for testing the generalization ability of the model in new environments. This study systematically compares, for the first time, the performance of
02088|Cotton Area Extraction Based on High-Resolution Sentinel-2 Satellite Images
   > for the monitoring of cotton planting areas and agricultural resource management in other regions.
02089|Machine Learning Based Algorithms for Crop Prediction System
   > can be used to predict which crop can be grown in the different regions.
02090|Classifying T cell activity in autofluorescence intensity images with convolutional neural networks
   > or extract image features with CellProfiler to deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) pre-trained on general non-biological images. Adapting pre-trained CNNs for the T cell activity
02091|Meta-learning prediction of physical and chemical properties of magnetized water and fertilizer based on LSTM
   > and steadily compared to the MAML model and the LSTM model. In cross-domain experiments, the average accuracy of the meta-learning optimized model can still reach … LSTM model and the basic MAML model. And in the training of cross-domain datasets, this model performs best.
02092|Canopy height measurements and non‐destructive biomass estimation of Lolium perenne swards using UAV imagery
   > 8 ground control points and 28 artificial height references were placed at different locations. Accurate flights with an RMSE as low as 0.94 cm were
02093|Estimating Soil Available Phosphorus Content through Coupled Wavelet–Data-Driven Models
   > organic carbon (OC), clay content, and soil P data, were collected from different regions of the Neyshabur plain, Khorasan-e-Razavi Province (Northeast Iran). First, a discrete
02094|An automated approach for human-animal conflict minimisation in Assam and protection of wildlife around the Kaziranga National Park using YOLO and SEN
   > [no abstract]
02095|Road Marking Segmentation Based on Siamese Attention Module and Maximum Stable External Region
   > can achieve pixel-level accuracy. Additionally, the sliding search box and maximum stable external region (MSER) algorithms are utilized to compensate for missed detection and position
02096|KLASIFIKASI CITRA TANAMAN MERAMBAT LIAR BERKHASIAT OBAT MENGGUNAKAN CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORK
   > during training and obtained an internal testing accuracy of 99.5% on previously unseen data. However, external testing using 25 images captured under real-world background conditions achieved an accuracy of 84%, indicating performance degradation due to variations in visual conditions outside the training dataset. The model … limited dataset; however, increasing data diversity is still required t
02097|A bibliometric analysis of research on remote sensing-based monitoring of soil organic matter conducted between 2003 and 2023
   > accuracy, while global spectral libraries (ISRIC and LUCAS) are more suitable for cross-region modeling, and the migration learning technique effectively improves the model generalization ability in low data regions. Integrated models (CNN-LSTM and GAN) have significant
02098|Modeling the agricultural suitability of key crops under climate change scenarios in british columbia using spatial machine learning
   > the framework could enhance agricultural planning and policymaking across Canada and in other regions to make progress toward sustainable and resilient food systems in the
02099|Joint Modeling of Grain Yield and Root Lodging in Maize Using Multi-Output Neural Network and Machine Learning Models Under Defined Environmental Cond
   > forest, and XGBoost using repeated five-fold cross-validation, an 80/20 holdout split, and independent year-wise validation. Under repeated cross-validation, XGBoost provided the strongest average predictive performance … R2 = 0.64 and R2 = 0.92, respectively. Year-wise validation showed weak temporal transferability because the two seasons differed not only in environmental conditions, but
02100|Advances in Liquid Chromatography–Mass Spectrometry-Based Lipidomics: A Look Ahead
   > [no abstract]
02101|Energy-efficient neural networks for passive acoustic monitoring: A spiking neural network approach
   > [no abstract]
02102|The RapidMapper: State-of-the-art in mobile proximal soil sensing based on a novel multi-sensor platform
   > electrode) sensors. We evaluated RapidMapper’s functionality across various plots and fields in different regions of Germany. This paper focuses on data quality assessment for one
02103|Explainable machine learning for wheat above-ground biomass estimation under spatial cross-validation: sensor contributions and exploratory harvest fo
   > plus a stacked ensemble, and obtained a preliminary, exploratory assessment of their spatial transferability with a leave-one-site-out cross-validation (LOSO-CV) scheme across the four site-seasons, with model transparency assessed via … 1 model's own spatial predictions as the target in the absence of independent harvest-date ground truth; self-consistency (RF, all predictors) was modest and deca
02104|IoT Based Crop Prediction using Machine Learning
   > the dataset and predict the most likely outcomes for specific crops in different regions. The model is trained on a diverse dataset, considering variations in climate and soil characteristics, ensuring
02105|Advanced Progressive Graph Convolutional Networks for Early Detection and Monitoring of Plant Infections and Disease Progression in Smart Agriculture
   > methods (DPLD‐DCNN), New DL algorithm for cross‐crop detection of plant disease: A generalized model for detecting unhealthy leaves (CPDD‐SVM) methods respectively.
02106|Cotton stubble detection based on wavelet decomposition and texture features
   > 1.2%. CONCLUSIONS: The algorithm can complete the task of stubble detection in different locations, different periods and abnormal driving conditions, which shows that the wavelet
02107|Electric batteries for mechanization and expanded Agrarian efficiency: Systematic literature review
   > a new Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) architecture is proposed, which offers improved generalization capabilities. The performance of the classification model is evaluated with and without … of synthetic images significantly enhances accuracy, as the enlarged dataset better represents real-world conditions. This approach provides a promising solution for more effective rice disease
02108|A Vision-Language Foundation Model for Leaf Disease Identification
   > and reliability in downstream tasks. Evaluated on a suite of 10 diverse out-of-distribution datasets, our model effectively transferred to a wide range of downstream tasks such as zero-shot, few-shot, image-text
02109|Ensemble Deep Learning for the Classification of Strategic Crops Using Sentinel-2 Time Series
   > to produce the final ensemble predictions. Model performance was evaluated across four spatial cross-validation configurations, in which the data from each of the four departments of Brittany was held out in turn as an independent test region, ensuring a rigorous assessment of the model’s spatial generalization capability. The ensemble model achieves a mean Overall Accuracy (OA) of 98.14%
02110|Recourse recovery of bioenergy from cellulosic material in a microbial fuel cell fed with giant reed-loaded wastewater
   > The ability of electrochemically active bacteria to degrade natural cellulosic bio-materials suggests a promising technology for converting biodegradable cellulosic wastes into electricity in specific applications. Giant reed (GR), a wild
02111|ML-enhanced peroxisome capacity enables compartmentalization of multienzyme pathway
   > [no abstract]
02112|PREEMACS: Pipeline for preprocessing and extraction of the macaque brain surface
   > of cortical surfaces have been reported for NHPs and none have been tested on data from diverse sources. We present PREEMACS, a pipeline that standardizes … version of FreeSurfer aided by the T2-weighted volumes (T2w). To evaluate the generalizability of PREEMACS, we tested the pipeline using 57 T1w/T2w NHP volumes acquired at 11 different sites from the PRIME-DE public dataset. Results showed an 
02113|Test-Time Adaptation of a Multi-Class Object Localization and Size Estimation Framework for Smart Agriculture Applications
   > size estimation for fruits/vegetables. However, when dealing with real-world applications, the data distribution shift would happen in response to the collection of new data. Moreover, some unseen fruits/vegetables often appear during the training process. All of these give rise … the open set recognition (OSR) problem. In such an OSR environment, a test-time domain adaptation approach based on de
02114|Transfer learning with attention-enhanced deep neural networks for plant enzyme classification using UniProt protein embeddings
   > using CD-HIT clustering at 60% identity, creating 13,784 clusters. We also performed Leave-One-Species-Out evaluation to assess cross-species generalization. Systematic benchmarking of 10 models reveals that the Attention-Enhanced DNN achieves the … 0.939 ± 0.005, and MCC of 0.903 ± 0.008, while demonstrating robust cross-species generalization with average LOSO AUC of 0.985 ± 0.008. Statistical t
02115|Examining Land Cover and Greenness Dynamics in Hangzhou Bay in 1985–2016 Using Landsat Time-Series Data
   > Land cover changes significantly influence vegetation greenness in different regions. Dense Landsat time series stacks provide unique opportunity to analyze land
02116|Development of a digital image classification system to support technical assistance for Black Sigatoka detection
   > [no term] Abstract A large percentage of Colombia’s economic activity corresponds to the agricultural sector. In this sector, plantains rank second in production and planted area. However this crop is affected by
02117|An investigation on environmental pollution due to essential heavy metals: a prediction model through multilayer perceptrons
   > Cu and Zn concentrations of plant and soil samples collected from five different locations. The derived relative errors for the constructed ANN model have been … for Ni by considering the Cu, Zn, location and plant parts as independent variables during the analysis. The results produced seem instructive and pioneering for
02118|FL-SNNIDS: Federated Spiking Neural Networks for Energy-Efficient Intrusion Detection in Agricultural SDN-IoT Networks
   > [no abstract]
02119|Structural Remodeling of Active Zones Is Associated with Synaptic Homeostasis
   > [no term] Perturbations to postsynaptic glutamate receptors (GluRs) trigger retrograde signaling to precisely increase presynaptic neurotransmitter release, maintaining stable levels of synaptic strength, a process referred to as homeostatic regulation. However, the
02120|Hyperlocal Precision Agriculture in Deltaic Ecosystems: A Critical Survey of AI, Machine Learning, and Data-Driven Approaches for Crop Intelligence an
   > consider the source of water, the difference between controlled experimental datasets and real-world conditions, the lack of region-specific (Tamil-language) advisory systems, and the reliance on
02121|Antioxidant Responses and Phytochemical Accumulation in Raphanus Species Sprouts through Elicitors and Predictive Models under High Temperature Stress
   > Crop production is being impacted by higher temperatures, which can decrease food yield and pose a threat to human nutrition. In the current
02122|UAV-Based Prediction of Cover Crop Biomass in Winter Peas Across Planting Dates and Cropping Systems
   > spring flight matched or exceeded multi-date combinations. In the evaluation of an independent test set, models ranked plots reliably but did not generalize in absolute magnitude. Low-cost UAV imagery is thus practical for cover crop
02123|Quantifying peatland land use and CO2 emissions in Irish raised bogs: mapping insights using Sentinel-2 data and Google Earth Engine
   > Abstract Ireland has > 50% of the EU’s ocean-raised bogs; however, degradation through land-use activities has transformed them from carbon (C) sinks to sources. … mitigation, it is essential to quantify the emissions resulting from land use degradation of these ecosystems. A seven-class land-use classification system for Irish peatlands (LUCIP)
02124|Deep Learning for Early Detection and Prediction of Emerging Plant Diseases
   > models, and few-shot learning paradigms that address persistent challenges of data scarcity, domain shift, and the pervasive "lab-to-field" performance degradation. We examine edge deployment strategies, model optimization techniques including INT8 quantization, and … practical agricultural adoption. Benchmark datasets are critically assessed for their limitations and generalization dynamics. Key 
02125|Locally weighted learning based hybrid intelligence models for groundwater potential mapping and modeling: A case study at Gia Lai province, Vietnam
   > and to develop economy not only of specific territories but also in other regions across the world with minor changes of the input parameters.
02126|Dew point temperature affects ascospore release of allergenic genus Leptosphaeria
   > [no term] The genus Leptosphaeria contains numerous fungi that cause the symptoms of asthma and also parasitize wild and crop plants. In search of a robust and universal forecast model, the ascospore
02127|Optimizing the procedure of grain nutrient predictions in barley via hyperspectral imaging
   > Models obtained in a certain environment were only to a limited extent transferable to other environments. They should therefore be successively upgraded with new calibration
02128|Monitoring Spartina Alterniflora removal dynamics across coastal China using time series Sentinel-1 imagery
   > [no abstract]
02129|AGRIGURU: A smart artificial intelligence solution for crop recommendation and plant disease detection
   > of the given soil and recommends appropriate crops for farmers. Soils from different regions have been considered for experimentation. The decision tree algorithm has been
02130|Data mining and model-predicting a global disease reservoir for low-pathogenic Avian Influenza (AI) in the wider pacific rim using big data sets
   > [no term] Avian Influenza (AI) is a complex but still poorly understood disease; specifically when it comes to reservoirs, co-infections, connectedness and wider landscape perspectives. Low pathogenic (Low-path LP) AI in chickens
02131|An end-to-end satellite-based GPP estimation model devoid of meteorological and land cover data
   > [no abstract]
02132|Ecological and Technological Insights to Enhance Rice Production: A Machine Learning Approach for Sustainable Agriculture in Granma, Cuba
   > ecological considerations for sustainable agriculture. Overall, our findings provide a roadmap for other regions facing similar challenges.
02133|Synthesizing crop modelling and deep learning for remote estimation of wheat biomass dynamics from multispectral and weather observations
   > tailored to commonly used sensors. Our comprehensive evaluation demonstrates the robustness and generalizability of pre-trained models for seasonal prediction of biomass dynamics from non-daily spectral … on more than 250,000 in-silico simulation scenarios across diverse environmental conditions, including different years, geographical locations, and crop varieties. Furthermore, validation on mult
02134|Reliability Analysis of Agricultural Foundation Models Under Distribution Shift
   > large drift scores do not necessarily correspond to large prediction errors. Some out-of-distribution samples are predicted accurately, while some in-distribution samples incur high error. These
02135|Crop Disease Detection and Severity Estimation Using Machine Learning
   > Masking step, which constrained the predictions to the selected crop in testing, decreasing cross-species false alarms from 18.4% to 0.0%.We also added Grad-CAM heatmaps for the
02136|AYVANA: Deep Learning-Based Disease Diagnosis in Dermatology and Agriculture
   > consistent CNN-based framework with shared methodology and domain-specific optimization that evaluates the independent reuse of convolutional neural network (CNN) paradigm across dermatological and agricultural image-based disease classification tasks. Using established transfer learning, domain-specific pipelines are trained independently using domain-appropriate optimization strategies, while sh
02137|Ensemble-based Deep Feature Extraction using Pre-trained CNNs for Black Pepper Leaf Disease and Nutrient Deficiency Detection and Classification: BPLD
   > [no abstract]
02138|Using deep domain adaptation for image-based plant disease detection
   > to solve classification problems in cases of a small training dataset, asfor example,domain adaptation(DA)methods.In this paper, a comparative study of three DA methods is performed:Domain-Adversarial Training of Neural Networks (DANN), two-steps transfer learning and Unsupervised Domain Adaptation with Deep Metric Learning (M-ADDA).The advantage of the M-ADDA methodwas shown,
02139|Source Free Semi-Supervised Transfer Learning for Diagnosis of Mental Disorders on fMRI Scans
   > by leveraging unlabeled data within the same institution and advantageous information from source domain, respectively. This work is the first attempt to propose an effective … for CAD of mental disorders on fMRI data. Within S3TL, a secure cross-domain feature alignment method is developed to generate target-related source model in SSL.
02140|YOLO-DC: A Crop Detection and Counting Network for UAV-Based Agricultural Scenes
   > fine-tuning on the rice dataset significantly outperform training from scratch, indicating strong cross-crop transfer potential. Overall, the proposed YOLO-DC provides an effective solution for high-precision
02141|Potential Distribution of Goldenrod (Solidago altissima L.) during Climate Change in South Korea
   > and topographic variables and anthropogenic activities. We adopt four single models (the generalized linear model, generalized additive model, random forest, and an artificial neural network) and a weighted … the southwest regions of South Korea, where temperatures are higher than in other regions, especially in the winter season. Solar radiation and Topographic Wetness Index
02142|Lightweight attention-enhanced EfficientDet for tomato leaf detection and disease classification in real-world conditions
   > and a mean Recall@IoU = 0.50 of 0.860 ± 0.021 over five independent runs, outperforming the baseline EfficientDet-D0 and other conventional detectors while requiring only
02143|Deep Learning for Plant Disease Detection: A Systematic Review
   > gap between the lab and the field, mainly due to environmental variations, domain shifts, and dependence on datasets. Some innovative and emerging technologies like explainable
02144|Forecasting sudden drops of temperature in pre-overwintering honeybee colonies
   > [no abstract]
02145|Supervised learning on phylogenetically distributed data
   > This challenge is particularly acute when data available for training is not independent and identically distributed (iid), in which case trained models are vulnerable to out-of-distribution generalization problems. Of particular interest are problems where data correspond to observations made
02146|Soil Moisture Retrievals by Combining Passive Microwave and Optical Data
   > cm3/cm3). Meanwhile, the estimated soil moistures agree with in-situ station data across different years (R2OLS = 0.376~0.85, R2SVM = 0.376~0.814, R2RF = 0.39~0.854; RMSEOLS =
02147|Thermal imaging-based characterization of fruit bruising using deep learning: a cross-dataset evaluation study
   > [no abstract]
02148|CSPN: A Category-Specific Processing Network for Low-Light Image Enhancement
   > Images captured in low-light conditions usually suffer from degradation problems. Recently, numerous deep learning-based methods are proposed for low-light image enhancement. … strikes a balance between computational cost and performance. Moreover, we observe that different regions of an image contain different amounts of information, where the region
02149|Generalization and Robustness Implications in Object-Centric Learning
   > inductive bias can be injected into neural networks to potentially improve systematic generalization and performance of downstream tasks in scenes with multiple objects. In this … evaluate segmentation metrics and downstream object property prediction. In addition, we study generalization and robustness by investigating the settings where either a single object is out of distribution -- e.g., havi
02150|DINOv3 Meets YOLO26 for Weed Detection in Vegetable Crops
   > on in-domain images collected in the 2025 season. Moreover, it demonstrated strong cross-domain generalization with mAP50 improvements of +14.0% on the 2021-2023 season dataset and +11.9%
02151|A High-Performance Hybrid Multi-Scale Vision Transformer for Robust In-Field Plant Disease Detection
   > have achieved remarkable performance on standardized datasets, they suffer from significant accuracy degradation when deployed in real-world agricultural environments due to the critical "lab-to- field" … 92.8% accuracy on a challenging custom in-field dataset, representing a minimal performance degradation of only 6.5% compared to 8.7-9.9% for existing methods. Furthermore, the model
02152|Sugarcane Crop Yield Prediction Using Supervised Machine Learning Techniques
   > [no abstract]
02153|A Comparative Evaluation of Deep Learning Architectures for Weed Classification, with an Exploratory Out-of-Distribution Analysis of Albanian Field Im
   > transparently reported, leading to its exclusion from multi-seed statistical comparisons. An exploratory out-of-distribution probe using unlabelled Albanian field images further highlights the challenges of geographic domain shift and the need for locally collected, labelled datasets before reliable regional
02154|Review on AI-Powered Plant Disease Detection: Advancements, Challenges, And Future Directions in Precision Agriculture
   > need for large labeled datasets, high computational resources, and extensive testing under real-world conditions.
02155|Mapping the distribution and extent of India's semi‐arid open natural ecosystems
   > characteristics, as well as further consideration of these vulnerable neglected ecosystems in other regions of the world.
02156|Smart Crop Prediction Using Soil Moisture By Machine Learning
   > inputs to specific crop suitability.To guard against overfitting and ensure the model generalizes well to new regions, we applied a combination of standard hold-out validation and iterative cross-validation techniques.Experimental results demonstrate that XGBoost achieves superior predictive performance and generalization capability, attaining an accuracy of approximately 99% on the test dataset.T
02157|DINOv3 meets YOLO26 for enhanced crop-weed detection toward precision vegetable weeding
   > [no abstract]
02158|Monitoring long-term annual urban expansion (1986–2017) in the largest archipelago of China
   > will play an important role for island sustainability. The proposed framework is transferable in other regions for a better understanding of the long-term island urban dynamics at
02159|Pest image recognition algorithm based on joint adversarial transfer learning
   > [no abstract]
02160|Domain adapted broiler density map estimation using negative-patch data augmentation
   > [no abstract]
02161|Optimizing the automated recognition of individual animals to support population monitoring
   > [no term] Abstract Reliable estimates of population size and demographic rates are central to assessing the status of threatened species. However, obtaining individual‐based demographic rates requires long‐term data, which is often costly
02162|A Novel Resource and Distribution Aware Random Forest for Agricultural Productivity Prediction
   > [no term] Agriculture has continued being one of the economic powerhouses of India, but then the productivity is usually compromised due to the poor utilization of soil and environment data.This paper is
02163|Environment-Aware Multi-Target Tracking of Pedestrians
   > behavior into account. However, few do this in a way which seamlessly generalizes to new environments where no prior observations of pedestrians are available. In this letter, … our proposed method as motion model considerably improves prediction quality in previously unseen test environments. Even though we train the CNN entirely in simulation, our experiments suggest that the learned models gene
02164|Use of Machine Learning and Remote Sensing for Yield Prediction in Major Crops
   > performance compared to traditional statistical methods. However, obstacles such as data heterogeneity, transferability across regions, and model interpretability remain. The review concludes with insights on
02165|CREATING ALERT MESSAGES BASED ON WILD ANIMAL ACTIVITY DETECTION USING HYBRID DEEP NEURAL NETWORKS
   > [no term] The escalating conflicts between humans and wildlife have become a pressing global concern, especially in regions where agricultural land, villages, and forest reserves coexist in close proximity. Wild animals, when
02166|The smart scythe: AI-powered weed detection in agriculture
   > Indian agricultural dataset collected from Madhya Pradesh, enabling a systematic assessment of cross-domain generalisation. The results showed that ResNet-50 achieved the highest in-domain performance (72.5% accuracy; … sensitivity for weed detection. Further, CLIP-MLP improved classification balance and demonstrated superior cross-domain performance (~ 70% on Indian data), surpassing ResNet-50 an
02167|AI-powered cow detection in complex farm environments
   > and background interference, which hinder accurate and reliable detection. Additionally, the model generalization power is highly desirable as it enables the model to adapt and … YOLOv8. Our findings indicate that while baseline models show promise, their performance degrades in complex real-world conditions, which our approach improves using the CBAM attention module. Overall, YOLOv8-CBAM
02168|Advances in Ecological Surveillance: Real-Time Wildlife Detection using MobileNet-SSD V2 CNN
   > Abstract Across different regions, the ongoing struggle between humans and animals takes various shapes, including
02169|Assessing ecological connectivity in the Serra do Cando and Serra do Candán area of Galicia: A multitemporal classification and least-cost path modell
   > This study assesses the state of ecological connectivity between hardwoods habitats in different years for a Natura 2000 area in Galicia, in northwestern Spain, the … % respectively in 2022. The results for the year 2029 show a decrease in areas under crops and grassland according to RF and conifers in
02170|Infection of Rodents by Orientia tsutsugamushi, the Agent of Scrub Typhus in Relation to Land Use in Thailand
   > by the bacterium in Thailand: B. bowersi and L. edwardsi. Using a Generalized Linear Mixed Model (GLMM) and Random Forest analyses for investigating the association
02171|Biogeography of Crop Progenitors and Wild Plant Resources in the Terminal Pleistocene and Early Holocene of West Asia, 14.7–8.3 ka
   > models using downsampled data from palaeoclimate simulations. Our models performed well against independent contemporary test data, but their ability to predict the occurrence of specific
02172|Towards standardised large-scale monitoring of peatland habitats through fine-scale drone-derived vegetation mapping
   > could map both fine-scale vegetation patterns and habitats with high accuracy. • Spatial transferability of the mapping approach was limited between peatlands. Northern peatlands provide … habitat quality (status) for five Irish peatlands (35–124 ha). We also explored spatial transferability of our mapping approach across peatlands. First, orthomosaics and digital terrain
02173|When Ground-Truth Fidelity Matters: An Orchestrated UAS Framework for Wheat Streak Mosaic Virus Detection Using Vision Transformers and Machine Learni
   > accuracy was largely driven by label bias rather than disease detection. Performance decreased markedly against row-level symptom severity and plant-level ELISA labels. Under these higher-fidelity but smaller-sample conditions, both deep learning and classical machine learning showed limited generalization and weak separability between ELISA-confirmed mock-inoculated and infected plants. These res
02174|Hybrid mechanistic–machine learning framework for cross-site prediction of root-zone soil water depletion in agricultural water management systems
   > [no abstract]
02175|Integrating a process-based crop model with machine learning for early-season summer maize yield prediction in the Huang-Huai-Hai Plain
   > preferred learner for yield prediction. The hybrid model exhibited slightly better spatial generalization than temporal generalization. Considering both timeliness and accuracy, reliable yield predictions can be achieved approximately
02176|Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning for Crop Disease Detection: A Systematic Review and Research Agenda
   > alternatives. Most studies relied on laboratory datasets, reported accuracy alone, and lacked external validation, producing a consistent laboratory-to-field performance gap, particularly in African smallholder contexts.
02177|Indirect Estimation of Carbon Emissions in Cement Plants Using Machine Learning: A Random Forest Approach for Alternative Biomass Co-Processing
   > to address missing values, harmonize hourly intervals, and exclude shutdown periods. Three independent random forest models were developed for petroleum coke, olive pomace, and grape … random hold-out evaluation and a complementary chronological sensitivity analysis designed to examine temporal transferability. The analysis focuses on the performance and interpretation of the modular
02178|AI-based Animal Intrusion Detection System for Human-Wildlife Conflicts in Bhutan
   > learning algorithm for real-time animal detection and classification. The YOLO model was trained on a dataset of 30,800 images featuring seven local wildlife species which … through its pilot implementation to evaluate the system's performance and robustness under real-world conditions of the agriculture field. 
02179|Social-AgriNet: Explainable Multimodal Deep Learning with Spatial Attention for Robust Banana Disease Detection in Real-World Conditions
   > [no abstract]
02180|Deep Learning Based Classification of Edible Wild Plant Images: A Mobile Application Model
   > [no term] Bu çalışmada, yenilebilir yabani bitkilerin (YYB) tanımlanması amacıyla geliştirilen bir mobil uygulama tanıtılmaktadır. MobileNetV2 mimarisi kullanılarak oluşturulan derin öğrenme modeli, 35 farklı bitki türünü tanımlayabilmektedir. Model, toplamda 16.500 görüntüden oluşan
02181|Explainable Deep Learning for Intelligent Plant Disease Detection
   > major benchmark datasets; discusses major challenges to their deployment, including class imbalance, domain shift, model size reduction, and human–AI trust calibration; then ends with potential
02182|A Phenology-Driven and Spatiotemporally Transferable Framework for Mapping Plastic-Mulched Farmland
   > its widespread expansion has also introduced some environmental concerns, such as soil degradation and plastic pollution. Therefore, large-scale PMF monitoring is essentially needed, yet remains … across regions. To address this challenge, we propose a phenology-driven and spatiotemporally transferable (PSTT) framework for cross-regional and cross-year PMF mapping, utilizing multisource time-serie
02183|Changes in Organic Acid Composition, Proton Efflux and Root Length in Rice Genotypes Differing in Grain Zinc Accumulation Efficiency
   > [no term] Background: Rice genotypes exhibit notable diversity in grain zinc content, with wild types accumulating higher levels than cultivated varieties, even in zinc-deficient soils. This study focuses on the wild rice
02184|Interpretable mango leaf disease detection using a hybrid CNN–transformer model with GLCM features
   > and lack scalability, while existing deep learning approaches struggle with dataset imbalance, generalization limitations, and interpretability issues. To address these challenges, we propose ViX-MangoEFormer, a … score of 99.78% and MCC of 99.34%, outperforming all baseline models. Furthermore, cross-domain tests reveal strong generalization to morphologically similar crops. A web application has
02185|Impact of Machine Learning Predictive Models Towards Crop Yield in Rural Areas
   > Theory, Kernel Methods & Representer Theorem, Deep Learning Theories (Universal Approximation, Backpropagation, Generalization in Overparameterized Regimes, Transfer Learning & Domain Adaptation Theories and Causal Inference & Counterfactual Theories (Emerging) which also provided
02186|NeuralCrop: Combining physics and machine learning for improved crop yield projections
   > GGCMs retain substantial uncertainties stemming from process representations. Recently, machine learning approaches trained on observational data provide alternatives in crop yield projections. However, these models … for projecting crop yields under a changing climate due to their poor out-of-distribution generalization. Here we introduce NeuralCrop, a differentiable hybrid GGCM that combines the
02187|Effects of vegetation restoration on carbonate‐derived laterite erodibility in karst mountain areas
   > laterite in karst areas. Experiments were conducted at two representative sites for different years of vegetation restoration. Six karst mountain land use types [grassland (Y1), … soil erodibility. The results showed that the soil erodibility K factor exponentially decreased with increasing restoration age and tended to remain stable after 20 years
02188|Penalized factorial regression as a flexible and computationally attractive reaction norm model for prediction in the presence of GxE
   > challenge in plant breeding and genetics is the prediction of yield for new environments in the presence of genotype by environment interaction (G×E\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} \usepackage{amsmath} \usepackage{wasysym} … from differences in genotype-specific slope or rate parameters. Prediction of yield for new environments requires the identification of suitable reaction norm functions and the e
02189|MoCE-ViT: Momentum-Contrastive Enhanced Vision Transformer for UAV-Based Crop Health Classification
   > Paddy crop health monitoring via unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) RGB imagery faces domain shift challenges induced by seasonal, spatial, and varietal variability. To address this, … locations and timeframes, our model achieves an internal accuracy of 96.95% and generalizes effectively to external domains, yielding accuracies of 88.77% and 93.05%, respectively. Compared to the baseline
02190|DEVELOPING BACTERIAL WILT DETECTION MODEL ON ENSET CROP USING A DEEP LEARNING APPROACH
   > are many cultivated crops which are used as a staple food in different regions of the country. From those crops Enset is the one and
02191|Adversarial Attack Detection in Industrial Control Systems Using LSTM-Based Intrusion Detection and Black-Box Defense Strategies
   > is an LSTM-based IDS that can compromise a ICSs subset of sensors. In the wild cyber-physical attacks take place in ICSs that are masked from
02192|[Inversion of Soil Organic Matter Content Using Hyperspectral Data Based on Continuous Wavelet Transformation].
   > also introduced to build inversion models to predict SOMC from spectra for different regions and different kinds of soils. In this paper, the hyperspectral reflectance … time, the SOMC of each soil sample was analyzed using potassium dichromate external heating method in the laboratory. The correlation analyses between raw soil spectral
02193|WildScenes: A benchmark for 2D and 3D semantic segmentation in large-scale natural environments
   > (3) containing different natural environments over 6 months to support research on domain adaptation. Our 3D semantic labels are obtained via an efficient, automated process … natural environments. We propose train-val-test splits for standard benchmarks as well as domain adaptation benchmarks and utilize an automated split generation technique to ensure the
02194|AgroVision: Bridging Laboratory and Field Data for Enhanced Plant Disease Recognition
   > [no term] Worldwide, crop health still suffers despite constant watch – diseases linger, cutting harvests and weakening quality across regions. Early detection shifts outcomes once outbreaks begin; yet current approaches lean heavily
02195|Comparing Leave-One-Year-Out and Walk-Forward Back-Testing in the Douro Demarcated Region
   > level wine grape yield estimation in the Douro Demarcated Region (DDR), comparing Leave-One-Year-Out (LOYO) validation with Walk-Forward (WF) back-testing. The modelling workflow combines Sentinel-derived Normalised … model comparison, whereas WF provides a more operationally realistic assessment of temporal generalisation. By making this distinction explicit, the study strengthens the methodologi
02196|Prévision des impacts de la production agricole sur les prix mondiaux du maïs
   > year in Northern America negatively impact the world price while production of other regions have weak or no influence. We find that TBATS is the
02197|AI driven multi modal deep learning system for wheat disease detection, yield prediction, and crop health monitoring
   > work. We encounter real-world obstacles along the road, such as photographs from different locations not always match, mislabeled photographs from different locations not always match, mislabeled diseases, and neglected rare pests. Our step-by-step
02198|Voice Intelligence Based Wake Word Detection of Regional Dialects using 1D Convolutional Neural Network
   > developing the wake word detection system for major dialects based on 5 different regions in Karnataka, namely-Dharwad, Dogganal, Tulu, Kodagu and Urban Kannada.The customized wake
02199|Enhanced discriminative global-local feature learning with priority for facial expression recognition
   > [no abstract]
02200|LSTM-attention-guided graph neural networks for integrated genotype–Environment modeling in maize yield prediction
   > for yield prediction. Using a forward-time split (2014-2021 train; 2022 test with unseen genotypes and unseen environments), performance improves monotonically from A to C: A (RMSE 2.7749, PCC
02201|Exploring the Potential of Long Short‐Term Memory Networks for Predicting Net CO 2 Exchange Across Various Ecosystems With Multi‐Source Data
   > [no term] Abstract Upscaling flux tower measurements based on machine learning (ML) algorithms is an essential approach for large‐scale net ecosystem CO 2 exchange (NEE) estimation, but existing ML upscaling methods face
02202|Interannual Multicrop Identification in Large Area Based on Optimized Monthly Tile Classification Model With Spatio-Temporal Distance Features Fusion
   > the coupling between phenological and spatial factors necessary for crop growth in different regions under feature fusion. Additionally, sample migration under feature fusion enhances the accuracy and representativeness of sample points across different years. WMRF integrates a monthly classifier with multisource feature distance interpolation. The
02203|Crop Yield Prediction in Maharashtra Using Machine Learning: A Comparative Analysis of Multiple Models
   > as rainfall, temperature, humidity, soil pH, and crop production data collected from different regions. Various machine learning algorithms, including Linear Regression, Decision Tree, Random Forest,
02204|Plant Disease and Nutrition Deficiency Detection Using Deep Learning
   > [no abstract]
02205|Rethinking Plant Disease Diagnosis: Bridging the Academic-Practical Gap with Vision Transformers and Zero-Shot Learning
   > consists of well-centered plant images captured against uniform, uncluttered backgrounds. Although models trained on this dataset achieve high accuracy, they often fail to generalize to real-world field images, such as those submitted by farmers to plant … Contrastive Language-Image Pre-training (CLIP)-based zero-shot models. While CNNs exhibit limited robustness under domain shift, Vision Transfo
02206|Neural Networks based image classification for animal Intrusion Detection System
   > to crops because of pests and wildlife. In any case, productivity is decreased by the wild creatures trampling over harvests and eating them. This project
02207|Principles and Methods of Counteracting Harmful Salmon–Arthropod Interactions in Salmon Farming: Addressing Possibilities, Limitations, and Future Opt
   > [no term] The arthropod salmon louse (Lepeophtheirus salmonis) is a major threat to Atlantic salmon aquaculture and wild salmonids. Essentially like in monoculture, very high concentrations of susceptible hosts may result in
02208|Application of machine learning methods and remote sensing data for crop yield forecasting
   > and accurate forecasts. Methods. This study analyzes two agricultural fields located in different regions of Ukraine with varying natural conditions. A comprehensive dataset was collected,
02209|Physics-Informed Neural Networks for Predicting Nitrous Oxide Flux
   > MLP baseline achieving mean R$^2=0.411$ across ten random seeds. Physics constraints consistently degrade model performance in holdout validation, with marginal degradation at low $\lambda$ and significant degradation at high $\lambda$, but consistently improve model performance and reduce performance variability in leave-one-site-out validation. This suggests that physics constraints sacrifice in
02210|How to discriminate wood of CITES-listed tree species from their look-alikes: using an attention mechanism with the ResNet model on an enhanced macros
   > [no term] Introduction: Global illegal trade in timbers is a major cause of the loss of tree species diversity. The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
02211|YIELD OF MAIN AGRICULTURAL CROPS IN THE PENZA REGION: ANALYSIS OF PREDICTORS AND MEDIUM-TERM FORECAST
   > Automated feature selection produced crop-specific predictor sets of 17–31 variables with low cross-crop overlap (Jaccard coefficient 0.09–0.26) and agronomically interpretable composition. Backtesting yielded MAPE values
02212|Toward autonomous weed management systems in sugarcane crops and an assessment of technological readiness
   > progress was made, precisely detecting weeds in perennial crops remains unsolved under real-world conditions.
02213|A Multi-Dataset Benchmark of YOLO-Based Weed Detection in Precision Agriculture
   > latency, FPS, and model size. In addition to in-dataset evaluation, we investigate cross-domain generalization using a unified one-class weed setup and evaluate multi-source training using the … highest average accuracy and YOLO26s providing the best practical accuracy-efficiency trade-off. However, cross-domain performance decreases substantially, with YOLO26s dropping from an average in-domain m
02214|Adversarial Domain Adaptation Enables Knowledge Transfer Across Heterogeneous RNA-Seq Datasets
   > In transcriptomics, such datasets are frequently limited, leading to over-fitting and poor generalization. Knowledge transfer from larger, more general datasets can alleviate this issue. However, … differences in target phenotypes. In this study, we propose a deep learning-based domain adaptation framework that enables effective knowledge transfer from a large general dataset
02215|Toward generalizable crop-weed detection with vision-language models
   > usage. Conventional deep learning models for crop-weed detection often suffer from performance degradation under the data-scarce scenarios commonly encountered in agricultural vision applications. Vision-language models … in inferior performance for all three VLMs. Grounding DINO achieved the best cross-season generalization performance, with 60.9% and 45.6% AP@50 on the 2021–2023 and 2024 dataset
02216|Innovative Approaches to Crop Protection: Integrating Wild Animal Detection Systems
   > [no term] One of the biggest problems facing farmers around the world is the growing risk of wild animals destroying crops. Crop protection techniques like hand patrols and fencing are expensive and
02217|Comparative Analysis of ResNet50, ConvNeXt, and Vision Transformer Architectures for Automated Plant Disease Recognition
   > [no term] This paper presents a controlled comparative study of three deep learning architectures, ResNet50, ConvNeXt-Tiny, and Vision Transformer ViT Base 16, for automated plant disease classification using the PlantVillage dataset, with
02218|A Taxonomy of Machine Learning for UAV-Enabled Precision Agriculture: A Structured Survey
   > analyze how modeling choices interact with data characteristics to influence robustness, cross-environment generalization, computational efficiency, and deployment feasibility on UAV and edge platforms. Recurring challenges include limited labeled data, domain shift across seasons and fields, multimodal heterogeneity, occlusion, and real-time processing constraints. We identify emerging research d
02219|f4-statistics-based ancestry profiling and convolutional neural network phenotyping shed new light on the structure of genetic and spike shape diversi
   > Spike shape variation patterns were analyzed using a convolutional neural network-based approach, trained on green and dry spike image datasets. This analysis showed that spike
02220|A Comprehensive Survey on Models, Architectures, and Performance Metrics for Medicinal Plant Classification Using Machine Learning and Deep Learning A
   > detailed plots, correlation matrices, heatmaps, and trend analyses are presented to reveal cross-domain patterns and identify leading techniques. The main findings indicate that deep learning
02221|AI-Driven Breeding Enhances Stress Tolerance in High-Elevation Extremophytes: A Proof-of-Concept Study with Cross-Component Validation
   > adversarial networks (GANs) for proposing novel gene combinations. Using synthetic data emulating real-world conditions, we demonstrate that our platform can accurately predict plant growth and
02222|3D-CNN detection of systemic symptoms induced by different Potexvirus infections in four Nicotiana benthamiana genotypes using leaf hyperspectral imag
   > viral infections in the model plant Nicotiana benthamiana L. and assess the generalization of these models across different plant genotypes. Four genotypes of Nicotiana benthamiana … \begin{document}$$0.68$$\end{document}–0.89\documentclass[12pt]{minimal} \usepackage{amsmath} \usepackage{wasysym} \usepackage{amsfonts} \usepackage{amssymb} \usepackage{amsbsy} \usepackage{mathrsfs} \usepackage{upgre
02223|A new nonlinear method for downscaling land surface temperature by integrating guided and Gaussian filtering
   > [no abstract]
02224|Sentinel-1 (S1) time series alignment method for rapeseed fields mapping
   > different study sites in France and North America, we first investigated the temporal transferability of the classifiers across several years within the same site, specifically using the Random Forest (RF) and InceptionTime algorithms. We then examined the spatiotemporal transferability of the classifiers when a classifier trained on one site and year was used to generate rapeseed fields map for a
02225|Monitoring the little fire ant, Wasmannia auropunctata (Roger 1863), in the early stage of its invasion in China: Predicting its geographical distribu
   > Random Forest (RF) were more accurate than categorical regression tree analysis (CTA), generalized linear model (GLM), maximum entropy model (MaxEnt) and surface distance envelope (SRE).
02226|CNN-Based Crop Disease Detection: A Comparative Analysis of Architecture Performance Under Laboratory and Field Conditions
   > [no abstract]
02227|Enablers of Agriculture 4.0: A Comprehensive Survey of Machine Learning, Robotics, and Emerging Technologies Driving the Next Agricultural Paradigm
   > [no abstract]
02228|Disgust in animals and the application of disease avoidance to wildlife management and conservation
   > We highlight some of the perspectives and current challenges of testing disgust in the wild. In particular, we recommend future studies to consider together disease,
02229|Cover crop biomass estimation using UAV-based multispectral feature fusion and machine learning
   > g m - ²), while PLSR showed the weakest performance. Grouped validation (leave-one-year-out, leave-one-species-out, and leave-one-treatment-out) revealed reduced model performance compared to random (70/30) splitting of pooled data, yet the ANN maintained moderate predictive ability, indicating reasonable generalizability across years, species, and management conditions. Shapley additive explanati
02230|Application of image processing and soft computing strategies for non-destructive estimation of plum leaf area
   > To develop reliable models, 5548 leaves were subjected to experiments in two different years, 2019 and 2021. Image processing technique was used to extract dimensional … their applicability for estimating LA with high accuracy in subsequent years. In another research segment, LA prediction models were developed using data from 2021, and
02231|Probabilistic analysis of future drought propagation, persistence, and spatial concurrence in monsoon-dominant Asian regions under climate change
   > Conversely, Southeast Asia is projected to experience reduced spatial drought concurrence with other regions, which could encourage greater regional cooperation. Overall, this comprehensive approach, which
02232|Intercomparison of Machine Learning Algorithms for Remote Sensing-based In-season Crop Mapping
   > and almonds in California at 30m resolution accurately by early June in unseen years, with robust quantification of uncertainty due to phenology and crop distribution. … algorithm overall, with a mean F1 score of 0.74 (0.59) across five unseen validation years for almonds by early June in California (corn by early
02233|Group-Conditional Conformal Prediction via Quantile Regression Calibration for Crop and Weed Classification
   > to the problem of deep visual classification of weeds and crops in real-world conditions. The framework is exposed with a focus on its practical aspects
02234|Cyber-Physical System Integration of IoT Sensing and Machine Learning: A Cross-Domain Review of Decision Support and Control in Smart Buildings and Pr
   > operation, and subsequent performance evaluations. The outcome of this paper brings out transferable decision support patterns across domains such as the mechanisms which have proven
02235|Multiseason Crop Type Mapping in Arid Agricultural Systems Using High-Resolution Planet Imagery
   > Fusion (PF) imagery. The framework integrates four methodological innovations: (1) strict field-level spatial cross-validation (splitting by unique field-ID) to prevent data leakage across seasons and
02236|AgrI Challenge: Cross-Team Validation for Quantifying Domain Shift in Multi-Source Agricultural Vision
   > [no abstract]
02237|Ticino: A multi-modal remote sensing dataset for semantic segmentation
   > Detection and Ranging, Synthetic Aperture Radar, etc., each capturing unique information across different regions of the electromagnetic spectrum. The fusion of different modalities can provide
02238|MBP-RTDETR: A Lightweight and Efficient Weed Detection Model for Field Crop Environments
   > collectively enable robust and computationally efficient detection of field weeds under complex real-world conditions.
02239|ResNet and MaxEnt modeling for quality assessment of Wolfiporia cocos based on FT-NIR fingerprints
   > [no term] As a fungus with both medicinal and edible value, Wolfiporia cocos (F. A. Wolf) Ryvarden & Gilb. has drawn more public attention. Chemical components’ content fluctuates in wild and cultivated
02240|Abnormality detection and quantification in maize fields using selective unsupervised domain adaptation
   > [no abstract]
02241|Towards Smart Agriculture: A Survey of Deep Learning Applications in Arecanut Image Analysis
   > charting a course for future research. We propose tackling data scarcity through domain adaptation and active learning, while unveiling deep learning's decision-making through advanced explainability
02242|Mapping Prosopis spp. with Landsat 8 data in arid environments: Evaluating effectiveness of different methods and temporal imagery selection for Harge
   > [no abstract]
02243|A Data Fabric Approach to Crop Yield Optimization Through Efficient Cross Species Diagnostics
   > [no abstract]
02244|Identifying drivers of soil nitrogen mineralization dynamics in cover‐cropped agroecosystems using machine learning
   > [no term]  Nitrogen (N) supply from cover crops to subsequent crop primarily depends on cover crop biomass production. Questions remain on how cover crop biomass interacts with abiotic factors to affect
02245|Modeling the Physical Characteristics of Ultrasound Pretreated Dialium guineense Whole Fruits Using Neural Network Pattern Recognition Model
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Dialium guineense is a wild fruit of African descent with rich nutritional content. The main aim of this work was therefore to model some physical characteristics of ultrasound pretreated
02246|PESTO: Real‑Time Pitch Estimation with Self‑Supervised Transposition‑Equivariant Objective
   > only outperforms self-supervised baselines but also competes with supervised methods, exhibiting superior cross-dataset generalization. Finally, we enhance PESTO's practical utility by developing a streamable VQT implementation
02247|Estimating reference evapotranspiration using hybrid models optimized by bio-inspired algorithms combined with key meteorological factors
   > [no abstract]
02248|Disentangling Phenotypic Plasticity: A Causal Representation Learning Framework for Cross-Domain Agricultural Vision
   > [no term] How can we design deep learning architectures that mathematically separate the true biological signs of a disease from background environmental noise. At the same time also ensuring that the AI
02249|Changing climate mediates sapsucker (Aves:Sphyrapicus) hybrid zone movement
   > is affecting hybrid zone movement in the Pacific Northwest. We found observed distribution shifts of parental sapsuckers were likely the result of climate change over … changes, the amount of overlap in the distribution of these sapsuckers may decrease. Using hybrid phenotypes, we found the climate niche occupied by the hybrid
02250|TinyCNN: A 193K-Parameter Network for On-Device Plant Disease Detection, with a Cross-Dataset Robustness Diagnosis
   > selects alpha=0.3, T=4, producing a distilled TinyCNN with 98.81% test accuracy. Finally, cross-dataset evaluation from PlantVillage to PlantDoc reveals a substantial robustness gap under real-world conditions, which a Grad-CAM analysis attributes to off-leaf, background-driven attention consistent with
02251|Phyto Pathogen Perception: AI Framework for Early Plant Disease Diagnosis and Sustainable Crop Management
   > and TorchVision, the platform ensures high-accuracy disease classification using deep learning models trained on diverse and continuously updated datasets, including rare and emerging diseases, for … and real-time updates even during peak usage. Multilingual support allows users from different regions to access diagnostic reports and prevention tips in their native languages.
02252|Unified Disease Prediction in Crops leveraging Diverse Stacked Deep Learning Models
   > [no abstract]
02253|Estimation of shrub willow biophysical parameters across time and space from Sentinel-2 and unmanned aerial system (UAS) data
   > [no abstract]
02254|On generalization and distributional shift in water and iron plant stress classification using bioimpedance spectroscopy
   > remain unaddressed: among others, the lack of suitable testing methods and reliable generalization assessment (i.e., success on new and unseen data) are surely relevant. These challenges stem from complex sources of biases … biological variability, soil composition, and environmental conditions), which can cause difficult-to-predict performance degradation. This work presents an ML pipeline based 
02255|Label-Free Deep Learning with Feature Adaptation for Crop Anomaly Detection on Small Datasets
   > this, a background interference analysis was conducted using Background Removed (BGRM) and out-of-distribution Background Replaced-Green (BGRP-G) strategies on the custom dataset. Notably, the BGRP-G strategy
02256|From Canopy Images to Organ-Level Disease Assessments: A Scalable Approach to Measure Quantitative Resistance in the Field
   > of canopy images and frequent symptom ambiguity, symptom detection and segmentation models trained on a new dataset reached a similar performance as already described in … Validation of the new method on data collected by different operators at different sites demonstrated the robustness of the approach. The ability of the method
02257|Temporal Generalization Evaluation of Deep Semantic Segmentation Models for UAV-Based Wheat Lodging Monitoring Under Transfer Learning
   > [no abstract]
02258|Deep learning approaches for crop disease classification: adapting to environmental challenges and hazy conditions
   > [no abstract]
02259|Stress phenotyping of wild desert legume Acacia senegal with machine learning application and phytochemical characterization of bipinnate leaves
   > [no term] Plants encounter multiple abiotic stresses. Among them, heat and drought stress play a substantial role in reducing the agricultural productivity of commercial plants. Hence, wild and underutilized plants can be
02260|Automated Weed Segmentation: A Knowledge- Based Approach to Support Machine Learning Training
   > [no abstract]
02261|Lightweight plant phenotypic feature extraction via transferable attention head pruning in Vision Transformers
   > lightweight Multi-Head Self-Attention (MHSA) mechanism for plant phenotypic feature extraction, which integrates cross-species transfer learning with dynamic head pruning to improve efficiency without compromising accuracy. … challenge stems from minimizing redundant computations without compromising the model's capacity to generalize over varied plant species, an issue intensified by the substant
02262|Development of a real-time non-contact yield mapping system using cascading neural networks for wild blueberry harvesters
   > characteristics of the terrain. In addressing the limitations of traditional sensors used in the wild blueberry harvesting process, integrating a 3D Time-of-Flight (ToF) camera, along
02263|Enhancing wind turbine blade damage detection with YOLO-Wind
   > newly added P2 detection layer enhances multi-scale defect recognition in complex environments. Cross-dataset evaluations validate the model's robustness and adaptability, with 15.2-16.3% mAP@0.5 improvements in
02264|Tracking spatiotemporal dynamics of crop-specific areas through machine learning and statistics disaggregating
   > data integrating and machine learning, taking factors related with crop distribution in different regions and complex agricultural systems into accounts. Experiments were conducted in three … USA. Results show that our products has a relatively good consistency with independent reference map or statistics. Our products provide approximate estimates for spatiotemporal dynamics
02265|Physics-Informed Earth Observation for High-Resolution Crop Evapotranspiration Mapping and Sustainable Agricultural Water Management
   > automated state-estimation mechanism designed to maintain inference during satellite data gaps and external data-service interruptions. AquaVolt-AI was evaluated over 36 days (28 June–3 August 2026) … water management, although broader multi-season and multi-site validation is required to establish transferability across cropping systems and agroclimatic environments. The main novelty of this stud
02266|eMCI: An Explainable Multimodal Correlation Integration Model for Unveiling Spatial Transcriptomics and Intercellular Signaling
   > to dissect the visual input. Especially, eMCI has been applied to 3 cross-species datasets, including zebrafish melanomas, soybean nodule maturation, and human embryonic lung, which
02267|Development of a digital system for automated movement of a machine for storing potatoes and vegetable crops
   > match was found between the authors’ results and the results presented in independent sources on the development of a block diagram of a computer modeling
02268|Explainable Deep Learning for Multi-Crop Disease Classification with Grad-CAM-Based Visual Interpretation
   > Applied to PlantDoc field photographs without adaptation, accuracy is 15-20%, which marks domain adaptation as the main remaining step toward deployment. MobileNetV3-Small offers the best … Index Terms—plant disease classification, explainable artificial intelligence, Grad-CAM, lightweight CNN, transfer learning, domain shift, precision agriculture
02269|Exploring the Effect of Meteorological Factors on Predicting Hourly Water Levels Based on CEEMDAN and LSTM
   > learning has a more stable predictive performance for water level forecasting in different regions.
02270|Rapid identification of the storage duration and species of sliced boletes using near‐infrared spectroscopy
   > [no term] Boletes are recognized as a worldwide delicacy. Adulteration of the expired and low-value sliced boletes is a pressing problem in the supply chain of commercial sliced boletes. This study aimed
02271|Quantifying Irrigation Water Demand through Optimized Daily Vapor Pressure Deficit Forecasting Using LSTM and Metaheuristic Algorithms
   > (MAE), and coefficient of determination (R2), alongside residual autocorrelation analysis and cross-station generalization heatmaps. GWO- and GA-optimized models demonstrated superior performance, achieving the best overall … bias stability. Unlike traditional single-station or static models, this framework supports spatially transferable VPD prediction without retraining, providing a scalable sol
02272|Detecting peatland vegetation patterns with multi-temporal field spectroscopy
   > area index (LAI) of seven plant functional types (PFTs). In the best cross-site regression models for detecting plant community clusters (PCCs), R2 was 42.6–48.0% (root
02273|Enhancing climate prediction accuracy with machine learning to promote agricultural carbon emission reduction
   > methodological support for climate-smart management of wheat–maize double-cropping systems; broader applicability to other regions and cropping systems requires further multi-site validation.
02274|Remote sensing of field-scale irrigation withdrawals in the central Ogallala aquifer region
   > [no abstract]
02275|Predmoter - Cross-species prediction of plant promoter and enhancer regions
   > [no term] Abstract Motivation The identification of cis -regulatory elements (CREs) is crucial for the analysis of gene regulatory networks in plants. Several next generation sequencing (NGS)-based methods were developed to identify
02276|AI-Assisted Early Detection of Crop Disease Using Hyperspectral Imaging and Deep Learning in Smallholder Farms
   > application in smallholder farms. Method. A convolutional neural network (CNN) model was trained on hyperspectral data collected from five farm sites, with ground-truth annotations by … smallholder farms. The system demonstrates high accuracy, adaptability, and operational feasibility in real-world conditions. Future work should focus on expanding crop and disease types, user
02277|Automated Detection of Selected Tea Leaf Diseases by Digital Image Processing Using Convolutional Neural Network (CNN): Bangladesh Perspective
   > large dataset of 3,330 images has been created by collecting samples from different regions of Sylhet division, the tea capital of Bangladesh. The proposed CNN
02278|Towards science-guided knowledge distillation for multimodal learning under cross-domain distribution shift
   > Modern multimodal artificial intelligence has demonstrated unprecedented generalization across broad domains. However, deploying these massive architectures in specialized scientific and … prohibitive computational and memory bottlenecks. Furthermore, these models often experience substantial performance degradation when confronted with extreme label sparsity and persistent distribution shifts ari
02279|Optimizing Machine Learning for Agricultural Productivity: A Novel Approach with Rscv and Remote Sensing Data
   > [no abstract]
02280|Integrating UAV-Based High-Throughput Phenotyping, Genomics, and Deep Learning to Improve Prediction of Complex Traits in Winter Wheat
   > for GY, TW, and GPC, respectively), with further improvement when models were trained on multi-location datasets (R² = 0.76, 0.64, and 0.75). Prediction accuracy for … the Feekes 11 stage. Forward prediction of preliminary breeding lines using models trained on multi-location advanced lines improved accuracy by 32% relative to single-location training.
02281|Harnessing iNaturalist to quantify hotspots of urban biodiversity: the Los Angeles case study
   > platforms such as iNaturalist, this modeling framework can easily be applied to other regions. Quantifying habitat suitability for a large, representative subset of the locally
02282|A voxel matching method for effective leaf area index estimation in temperate deciduous forests from leaf-on and leaf-off airborne LiDAR data
   > between leaf and woody materials using airborne LiDAR data. It potentially allows transferability to different sites and flight campaigns.
02283|Benchmarking Deep Learning Architectures for Agricultural Pathology: From Lightweight CNNs to Multimodal Large Language Models
   > CNNs provide optimal efficiency for mobile deployment, fine-tuned multimodal models achieve superior generalization with accuracies exceeding 98%. This study contributes a scalable, transparent, and high-precision
02284|A Deep Learning Based Mobile Application for Wheat Disease Diagnosis
   > healthy wheat plants and sick plants displaying different diseases were collected from different regions of Pakistan in order to construct an accurate and robust disease
02285|Considering spatial heterogeneity of cultivation conditions can effectively improve the assessment of nitrogen use at the provincial scale in China
   > China to reduce N pollution, and the method can provide guidance for other regions to assess N use in different scales.
02286|Towards Improving Adversarial Training of NLP Models
   > attacks. Furthermore, we show that A2T can improve NLP models' standard accuracy, cross-domain generalization, and interpretability. Code is available at https://github.com/QData/Textattack-A2T .
02287|Impact of Interseasonal Climate Variation on Crop Classification With Deep Learning and Sentinel-1 Data in Denmark
   > However, increasing interseasonal climate variation alters crop phenology, raising concerns about the generalization of models trained on past data under rapidly changing climatic conditions. Existing studies, often limited … models, leaving a critical gap in understanding how such variability influences model generalization. This study addresses these limitations by analyzing the generalization c
02288|A thermodynamics-integrated physics-guided neural network for soil temperature forecasting
   > agriculture, hydrology, and climate modeling; however, existing deep learning models often show degraded performance in long-term prediction due to error accumulation, insufficient physical interpretability, and limited spatial generalization. To overcome these limitations, this study proposes a Thermodynamic-Enhanced Physics-Informed Neural Network … the discrepancy between predictions and observ
02289|Machine Learning Methods to Analyze Arabidopsis Thaliana Plant Root Growth
   > and Negative Correlation Learning (NCL). The hybrid systems conserve of advantages and decrease the effects of disadvantages of NCL and ME. Our Experimental shows that
02290|Towards a robust out-of-the-box neural network model for genomic data
   > modest sample sizes, sparsity, and extreme heterogeneity. Here, we investigate the robustness, generalization potential and prediction accuracy of widely used convolutional neural network and natural … outperform convolutional neural network models in terms of prediction accuracy, overfitting and transferability across the datasets under study. While the perspective of a robust out-of-the-box
02291|WheatRPred: deep learning framework for predicting disease resistance protein in wheat and its wild relatives
   > Transformer models which capture spatial, sequential, and contextual features from protein sequences. Trained on a curated dataset of validated R and non-R proteins, the models
02292|Radiomics-driven and explainable machine learning for rapid characterization of Fusarium wilt and Black Sigatoka in banana crops
   > plant disease recognition; however, their limited transparency, calibration uncertainty, and sensitivity to domain shifts can restrict their use in decision-support workflows that require auditability. Methods: … for accuracy and [0.8306, 0.8606] for balanced accuracy. Three deep learning baselines trained on the same partition achieved higher predictive performance: MobileNetV3 with accuracy =
02293|Accurate Multilevel Classification for Wildlife Images
   > [no term] The most common approaches for classification rely on the inference of a specific class. However, every category could be naturally organized within a taxonomic tree, from the most general concept
02294|Evaluating the Reliability of CNN-Based Tomato Disease Classification Under Real-World Conditions: An AI Safety Case Study
   > obtained evaluation results — including per- class precision/recall, confusion matrix analysis, and independent real-world validation — this work examines specific failure modes (false positives, false
02295|Latency-Aware Cross-Domain Rice Variety Classification
   > deep learning methods have achieved high classification accuracy, most existing studies overlook domain shifts, deployment efficiency, and model interpretability. This paper proposes a latency-aware cross-domain rice variety classification framework that integrates proxy-domain grouping, GroupK-Fold evaluation, pretrained CNN … components retained approximately 99.08% of the original variance and 
02296|Intelligent image‐activated sorting of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii by mitochondrial localization
   > [no term] Organelle positioning in cells is associated with various metabolic functions and signaling in unicellular organisms. Specifically, the microalga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii repositions its mitochondria, depending on the levels of inorganic carbon.
02297|Evolution of drug resistance in HIV protease
   > [no term] BACKGROUND: Drug resistance is a critical problem limiting effective antiviral therapy for HIV/AIDS. Computational techniques for predicting drug resistance profiles from genomic data can accelerate the appropriate choice of therapy.
02298|Enhancing yield prediction from plot-level satellite imagery through genotype and environment feature disentanglement
   > clustering of environmental features. Moreover, the CAE consistently outperforms standard models in unseen environments and unseen genotypes yield predictions, demonstrating strong generalizability. This study demonstrates the value of disentangling G and E effects for
02299|Comprehensive growth monitoring index using Sentinel-2A data for large-scale cotton production
   > [no abstract]
02300|Detection and monitoring of Melampsora spp. Damage in multiclonal poplar plantations coupling biophysical models and Sentinel-2 time series
   > the context of climate change. The framework we propose is adaptable and transferable to different regions and conditions, enhancing disease monitoring and forest health management. Its robustness is further supported by external validation using the ANGERS spectral database, confirming the physiological relevance of the
02301|Toxicity Prediction of Landfill Leachate-Contaminated Crops Using Machine Learning Models Based on PAH and Heavy Metal Concentrations
   > and K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN)-were trained using nested, group-aware 5-fold cross-validation, with additional leave-one-site-out validation to test geographical generalization. Among the tested models, ANN achieved the highest predictive accuracy of 97.8%
02302|TIME-AWARE MACHINE LEARNING WITH MULTI-SOURCE DATA FOR FIELD-SCALE AGRICULTURAL DECISION SUPPORT
   > Forest, LSTM, Temporal Convolutional Network and a spatio-temporal Transformer are trained under leave-one-year-out and parcel based cross validation. The Transformer yields the best predictive performance
02303|Chili Leaf Disease Prediction Using CNN
   > Neural Network (CNN). The proposed model utilizes an image dataset collected from different regions ,consisting of chili leaf images infected with common chili leaf diseases,
02304|Estimating potential illegal land development in conservation areas based on a presence-only model
   > method can be further applied to illegal land development estimation in many other regions.
02305|Global-Local Feature-Based Rice Leaf Disease Classification Using Two-Stream Deep Neural Network Feature Fusion
   > accuracy of 98.91% ± 0.47, demonstrating the stability of the proposed approach. Cross-dataset evaluation using nine common disease classes across both datasets achieved 90.80% accuracy, indicating improved generalization across different data distributions. The proposed framework provides an accurate and explainable
02306|Neural-Network Surrogate Framework for Rapid LCA Impact Screening of Potato Production: Manual Management vs. Drone-Assisted Technification
   > (ANN) surrogate (29 outputs) was trained in Python (TensorFlow/Keras) and evaluated using leave-one-year-out (LOYO) cross-validation (2015–2024), showing strong agreement with the LCA results. This framework
02307|An Oracle-Distilled Neural Network for Hardware-Free Precision Water Management across Indian Agroclimatic Zones
   > rainfall is forecast, and tolerates controlled stress during stage-insensitive periods. Because it generalises to unseen locations and requires no capital expenditure, the approach offers a practical route
02308|Stacked Ensemble Machine Learning for Crop Yield Prediction Using Agro-Meteorological and Remote Sensing Features
   > on process-based crop simulation frameworks that require extensive parameterisation and exhibit limited transferability across geographies and cultivar types. This study proposes a two-level stacked ensemble … forest, and XGBoost as base-level learners, with ridge regression as the meta-learner trained on out-of-fold base predictions. The proposed stacked model achieves root mean square
02309|Comparing the Effectiveness of Linear Spatial Regression and Neural Networks for Spatial Data Estimation
   > the dependent variable, while the cultivated area and rainfall amount serve as independent variables. The aim of the study is to compare the performance of … the importance of the geographic dimension in explaining wheat production behavior across different regions. Based on the obtained findings, the study recommends the adoption of
02310|Modeling current and future distribution patterns of Uvaria chamae in Benin (West Africa): Challenges and opportunities for its sustainable management
   > world database and land cover from the DIVA-GIS site. Random Forest (RF), Generalized Additive Models (GAM), Generalized Linear Models (GLM) and the Maximum Entropy (MaxEnt) algorithm were used to
02311|A CNN-based framework for land use land cover classification of heterogeneous terrain using satellite images
   > [no abstract]
02312|Spatiotemporal transferability of multi-temporal random forest model for mapping Euryale ferox Salisb. plantations using Sentinel-2 imagery
   > fully exploit phenological information, resulting in suboptimal classification accuracy. More importantly, the spatiotemporal transferability of classification models, defined as the ability to maintain accuracy when applied to different regions or years without retraining, has been largely overlooked in crop mapping. To address this issue, we innovatively propose the Spatiotemporal Transferabilit
02313|Underlying characteristic aroma of white tea from diverse geographical origins and its prediction
   > BACKGROUND: White tea, an agriculturally distinctive product, exhibits significant aroma variations across different regions. Nevertheless, the mechanisms driving these differences, and distinguishing methods suitable for
02314|Crop Yield Prediction Using Precision Agriculture and Smart Farming Technologies: A Systematic Review and Future Research Trends
   > the global food system is facing increased pressures from climate change, soil degradation, and water scarcity. Precision agriculture is based on the development of data-driven … accuracy and robustness. Ongoing challenges include (but are not limited to) model transferability, the lack of standardized benchmark datasets for model development and evaluation, insufficient
02315|Machine Learning for Equipment Failure Prediction in Smart Manufacturing Plants: A Review
   > vibration and run-to-failure data, but requires careful validation against temporal leakage and domain shift. Hybrid approaches that combine signal processing, physics, digital twins and cost-aware
02316|When Plants Respond: Electrophysiology and Machine Learning for Green Monitoring Systems
   > accuracy. Our biohybrid living system monitors the electrophysiology of plants in harsh, real-world conditions. This work advances scalable, self-sustaining, and plant-integrated living biohybrid systems for
02317|Climate Crisis and Food Security in Bangladesh: Utilizing Machine Learning in Geospatial Environment to Investigate Drought Tolerance of Major Crops
   > [no abstract]
02318|A Cyclegan -Based Cross-Domain Tea Shoots Data Augmentation Method in Unstructured Agricultural Environments
   > [no abstract]
02319|New Transferable Deep Learning Approach for Crop Mapping Using Monthly Synthesized Sentinel-2 Imagery1
   > [no abstract]
02320|Learning Environment-Associated Marker Rankings with Attention-Based Graph Neural Networks
   > In both datasets, we examine whether learned marker rankings are stable across independent training runs and determine the overlap between high-ranked markers and external GWAS references. In a maize dataset with data from 212 different site-years, we rank markers separately within each weather-defined environment cluster and define … individual weather variables readable, and compare the resultin
02321|Predicting the potential impacts of climate change on the endangered Caesalpinia bonduc (L.) Roxb in Benin (West Africa)
   > Roxb is a medicinal plant with high therapeutic values but declared extinct in the wild in Benin. This study explored the potential distribution and climatic … algorithms namely Random Forest (RF), Boosted Regression Trees (BRT), Maximum entropy (MAXENT), Generalized Linear Models (GLM) and Generalized Additive Models (GAM). The results showed that all models performed well with
02322|An attention enhanced CNN ensemble for interpretable and accurate cotton leaf disease classification
   > confirms the model’s stability, with consistently strong macro F1-scores. To evaluate the generalization capability of the proposed CottonLeafNet, we conducted cross-dataset experiments, and the results indicate that the model maintains moderate performance even when trained and tested on different datasets. Gradient-Weighted Class Activation Mapping (Grad-CAM) visualizations demonstrate that Cott
02323|Automated Annotation of Plant Gene Regions Using Supervised Machine Learning
   > machine learning method for plant gene detection. GeAnno uses an XGBoost classifier trained on curated plant annotations and a sliding-window scheme while capturing redundancy, base … under matched training on 11 cassava ( Manihot esculenta ) genomes and cross-species evaluation, GeAnno achieved higher nucleotide-level precision and F1-score. For example, on cassava
02324|Evolutionary characteristics of intergenic transcribed regions indicate rare novel genes and widespread noisy transcription in the Poaceae
   > activity of novel genes or noisy expression. To address this, we evaluated cross-species and post-duplication sequence and expression conservation of intergenic transcribed regions (ITRs) in
02325|Deep Learning of Plant CIS Regulatory Code to Predict Expression and Trait Associated Variants
   > relationships in plant genomes. Emphasis is placed on feature representation, training paradigms, cross-species transfer, and evaluation strategies, as well as challenges arising from data heterogeneity,
02326|Identifying land use land cover change using google earth engine: a case study of Narayanganj district, Bangladesh
   > [no abstract]
02327|Analysing and predicting wildlife–vehicle collision hotspots for the Swiss road network
   > [no term] Abstract Context Wildlife–vehicle collisions (WVCs) are a significant threat for many species, cause financial loss and pose a serious risk to motorist safety. Objectives We used spatial data science on
02328|Scene Text Image Super-Resolution Via Semantic Distillation and Text Perceptual Loss
   > that addition of semantic information enables the proposed method to achieve promising cross-dataset performance. Since the proposed method is trained on cropped images, when applied to real-world scenarios, locations of text in
02329|Comparative analysis of AlexNet and ResNet50-based classification models for crop wild relatives identification
   > [no abstract]
02330|FLYNN: Robust Neural Network for Robot Navigation using Fly Brain Topology
   > achieve state-of-the-art performance in complex tasks, they remain brittle when faced with new environments or sensory deprivation. In contrast, biological systems exhibit remarkable tolerance to … hand-crafted networks of similar parameter counts. Crucially, FLYNN exhibits superior resistance to out-of-distribution (OOD) data and tolerance to sensory loss without further training. It remained
02331|GeoAI-Based Crop Yield Estimation in Africa: A Systematic and Bibliometric Literature Review With Comparisons to Major Agricultural Producers
   > [no abstract]
02332|Multi-Scale Fruit Capsules: Dilated Convolutions and Dynamic Routing for In-the-Wild Explainable Fruit Recognition
   > bagged in plastic, or sliced on a dish, so automated fruit classification in the wild (AFCW) must absorb wide intra- class and narrow inter-class variability … discards the pose and location of the region of interest and therefore generalises poorly across these presentations. We propose FruitCapsNet, a capsule network whose Fruit
02333|AgriVisionNet: multi-generative adversarial network and Class-Aware MultiScale Vision Transformer for plant disease detection and severity classificat
   > Grouped Query Attention (CGQA) organizes attention into specialized groups that focus on different regions of the leaf. This targeted approach enhances detection and classification accuracy,
02334|Biodiversity is overlooked in the diets of different social groups in Brazil
   > [no term] Food biodiversity is essential for improving nutrition and reducing hunger in populations worldwide. However, in middle and low-income countries, the biodiversity of food production does not necessarily represent food consumption
02335|Few-shot Metric Domain Adaptation: Practical Learning Strategies for an Automated Plant Disease Diagnosis
   > to insufficient variety in training data, ultimately constraining the system's robustness and generalization. To address these challenges, we propose Few-shot Metric Domain Adaptation (FMDA), a flexible and effective approach for enhancing diagnostic accuracy in … cases without target data, using only 10 images per disease from the target domain. Moreover, FMDA consistently outperformed fine-tunin
02336|CLASSIFICATION OF PAPAYA NUTRITION BASED ON MATURITY WITH DIGITAL IMAGE AND ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORK
   > should extend the dataset, incorporate deep learning approaches, and validate performance under real-world conditions to enhance robustness and generalization
02337|Temporal and Spatial Study of Water Quality and Trophic Evaluation of a Large Tropical Reservoir
   > and spatial variations of nine water quality parameters were evaluated at four different sites along the reservoir semiannually over a period of seven years (2012–2018),
02338|Radiogenomics for Glioblastoma Survival Prediction: Integrating Radiomics, Clinical, and Genomic Features Using Artificial Intelligence
   > to mitigate overfitting, batch normalization to stabilize training, and dropout for improved generalization. This specific configuration was determined through hyperparameter tuning using techniques like RandomizedSearchCV.
02339|A few-shot learning method for tobacco abnormality identification
   > a challenging issue in FSL. The weak feature representation leads to weak generalization and troubles in cross-domain. In this work, we propose a feature representation enhancement network (FREN) that … data when crossing domains also validates that the FREN has a strong generalization ability.
02340|Noise-Resilient Hybrid EfficientNet–Vision Transformer Framework with Adaptive Symmetric Cross-Entropy Loss for Robust Plant Disease Detection
   > and Co-Teaching (79.5%). Macro-precision, macro-recall and macro-F1 of the model on the external PlantDoc field dataset are 0.718, 0.681, 0.681, respectively with a top-1 accuracy of 72.0, which is a manifestation of cross-domain generalization. The lesion-centric Grad-CAM images indicate that the model places emphasis on symptomatic
02341|A trustworthy cross-domain AI framework for fundus disease classification using hybrid CNN fusion and supervised domain adaptation
   > disease classification often achieve impressive accuracy on internal datasets, yet their performance degrades markedly when applied to real-world clinical data. This limitation is primarily caused by domain shift arising from variations in imaging devices, illumination conditions, and population characteristics, … employed to reduce inter-device variability and standardize retinal appearance. Fusi
02342|Domain-Shift-Aware Climate-Smart Crop Portfolio Advisory for Nepal with Self-Supervised Tabular Learning and Conformal Shortlists
   > in Nepal. Eight crop classifiers were compared within a training pool, with independent temperature-calibration, conformal-calibration, and test subsets. Household models were evaluated under random and geographic holdouts, including 30 paired community-level ablations. An external explanation-consistency experiment used 900 held-out, human-annotated RAGTruth responses. Random forest attained the
02343|Estimating fine-scale soil moisture content and wheat yield in drought-heterogeneous farmlands using machine learning regressions on multispectral UAV
   > experimental farmlands. Temporal validation across different growing cycles suggests the potential for cross-year wheat yield prediction. Deviations from expected estimation patterns may be considered preliminary
02344|Geographical origin classification of tobacco by stable isotope and multi-elemental analysis in combination with chemometric methods
   > [no abstract]
02345|Engineering a Robust UDP-Glucose Pyrophosphorylase for Enhanced Biocatalytic Synthesis via ProteinMPNN and Ancestral Sequence Reconstruction
   > [no term] UDP-glucose is a key metabolite in carbohydrate metabolism and plays a vital role in glycosyl transfer reactions. Its significance spans across the food and agricultural industries. This study focuses on
02346|Red-Green-Blue (RGB) Image Classification Using Deep Learning To Predict Sugarcane Crop Age
   > connected layer, was used to classify the growth stages. The model was trained on cropped image sections, and its performance was compared to other deep … dataset containing drone images from specific sugarcane fields may limit the model’s generalizability to different regions and environmental conditions.
02347|Effect of the internal soil standard on the spectral assessment of clay content
   > has been launched. Application of the ISS to align one spectrum with another for merging different SSLs is highly needed. This led us to postulate … other two without (LUCAS and ICRAF–ISRIC). Then, three groups of soils from different regions (Israel, Czech Republic, and Brazil) were used as external test samples to examine the SSLs' performance. The SSLs that were generated
02348|Phenology-adaptive machine learning for early mapping of field-scale corn crop yield using fusion of Sentinel-2 satellite spectral imagery, and weathe
   > and multi-stage combinations capturing phenological progression. Models were tuned via randomized search, trained on 2018–2019 data, and independently validated on the 2020 season. Yield predictions were mapped directly at 10 … Early- or late-stage-only inputs (V4, R5, R6) showed weaker and less stable cross-year performance. Among algorithms, RF consistently generalized best to the independent 20
02349|Comparative analysis of metabolite profiles from Panax herbs in specific tissues and cultivation conditions reveals the strategy of accumulation
   > [no term] Panax ginseng is one of the most valuable medicinal plants in the world, and wild-forest (WG) and artificial-forest (AG) ginseng are very popular in the ginseng market, with ginsenosides constituting
02350|Wild Animal Deterrent System for Crop Protection: Leveraging TensorFlow IoT-based Acoustic Classification System
   > [no term] The protection of crops from damage by wild animals poses a significant challenge for farmers worldwide. To address this issue while promoting non-violent coexistence with wildlife, this project focuses on
02351|Classification of Plant Leaf Diseases Using Image Processing and Machine Learning on Real-World Images
   > leaf diseases using the PlantDoc dataset, which consists of images collected under real-world conditions. First, various image processing steps, such as denoising, color space transformations, … rate of 86.9%. These findings demonstrate that deep learning-based approaches have higher generalization capabilities on complex, multi-class real-world data. Furthermore, classical methods, thanks to thei
02352|A Hierarchical Deep Learning Framework for Pineapple Disease Detection, Typification, and Spatial Disease Visualization in Tropical Agricultural Envir
   > [no abstract]
02353|PestBoost: a novel Bayesian augmented domain neural network for robust strawberry disease detection
   > threat propagation and jeopardize yield and fruit quality. To fundamentally overcome the domain shift challenge, PestBoost proposes a novel Bayesian-Augmented Domain (BAD) mechanism. This approach
02354|A data-centric deep learning framework for Esca disease detection on visible grapevine leaf surfaces under cross-dataset field conditions
   > [no abstract]
02355|Improved Monitoring of Wildlife Invasion through Data Augmentation by Extract–Append of a Segmented Entity
   > [no term] Owing to the continuous increase in the damage to farms due to wild animals' destruction of crops in South Korea, various methods have been proposed to resolve these issues, such
02356|Coupling Soil Testing Data with Machine Learning Algorithms to Predict Plant Responses to Phosphorus in Sub-Saharan Africa
   > the selected models were suitable for predicting plant responses to P across different regions of SSA. Random forest presented a better predictive capacity for relative
02357|Non-destructive identification of Pseudostellaria heterophylla from different geographical origins by Vis/NIR and SWIR hyperspectral imaging technique
   > To address this, two or three TZS accessions were selected from four different regions of China, with each of these resources including distinct quality grades
02358|Materials-guided concrete compressive strength prediction under public-to-plant dataset shift: Retrospective single-plant validation and conformal unc
   > be treated as a materials-guided, locally calibrated, and uncertainty-aware workflow, while broader generalization still requires chronological and independent-plant validation.
02359|Leaf-Level Hyperspectral Discrimination of Wild Carrot from Co-Occurring Weeds and Hybrid Carrots Using Optimized Preprocessing and Machine Learning
   > 5.48–6.17, p < 0.001), indicating broadly stable spectral signatures suitable for model generalization. Savitzky–Golay filtering, with min–max normalization outperformed SNV, yielding high full-spectrum accuracies for
02360|Image Aesthetics Assessment Using Graph Attention Network
   > network architecture that takes this feature-graph and captures the semantic relationship between different regions of the input image using visual attention. Our experiments show that
02361|Landscape structure and suitable habitat analysis for effective restoration planning in semi-arid mountain forests
   > distribution models (SDMs), i.e., backpropagation artificial neural network (BP-ANN), maximum entropy (MaxEnt), generalized linear model (GLM), as well as the ensemble technique along with measuring
02362|Intelligent Mushroom Classification with Machine Learning and Deep Learning: A Comprehensive Survey and Future Directions
   > models, and data balancing methods, and presents how they affect classification performance. Cross-dataset comparison suggests that, under controlled conditions, ML and DL can achieve nearly perfect accuracy, while challenges such as generalization, small datasets, and class imbalance are observed. We conclude the paper by … directions of this burgeoning field, including multimodal fusion, real-ti
02363|Enhanced Spatio-Temporal Modeling for Rainfall Forecasting: A High-Resolution Grid Analysis
   > consisting of annual rainfall measurements spanning over 50 (1970–2019) years from 119 different locations (grid of 0.25 × 0.25 degree resolution) of West Bengal, a
02364|Development of augmented virtual reality-based operator training system for accident prevention in a refinery
   > [no abstract]
02365|Multi-scale machine learning model for long-term blue and green water consumption scenarios for crop production
   > machine learning models have been developed for crop WF accounting, however, the transferability of existing models has not been adequately validated, which constrains wider application … WFs (uWF b and uWF g ), total yield, and total WF. Cross-regional validation in the Colorado River Basin for the basin scale, and mainland China for national scale confirmed the spatial transferability of the mod
02366|Automated Truffle Crack Detection in Soil Imagery: A Comparative Deep Learning Approach for Precision Agriculture
   > neural network (CNN) architectures: a custom model, VGG16 (transfer learning), and ResNet50. Trained on 300 soil images (216 training, 54 validation, 30 test) with real-time geometric augmentation (rotations ±25°, shear ±20%, zoom ±30%), models were tested on a stratified subset of 30 unseen images. The custom CNN achieved 79.6% accuracy (F1=0.727), while VGG16’s transfer learning
02367|Ensemble based Time Series Clustering Framework for Field Boundary Delineation using Satellite Imagery
   > [no abstract]
02368|Mapping oil palm density at country scale: An active learning approach
   > Distance (GSD) , for all of Indonesia and Malaysia and for two different years, 2017 and 2019. The maps have a mean absolute error of $\pm$7.3 trees/$ha$, estimated from an independent validation set. We also analyse density variations between different states within a
02369|YOLOv11-based real-time weed detection and autonomous precision spraying for hilly agriculture
   > Faster R-CNN on a performance basis using conventional detection metrics. On the independent test set, YOLOv11 achieved precision 0.7516, recall 0.8846, F1 0.8127, and mAP@0.5 … in herbicide volume versus blanket application (mean ± SD; n = 3 independent paired field trials), and 7.1% off-target drift, demonstrating that the title’s claim
02370|Predicting Root Colonization by Plant Growth-Promoting Rhizobacteria: Opportunities and Limits of Deep Learning
   > annotation, and trait independence, and propose a metadata schema and benchmark framework. Independent strain and soil holdouts, endpoint-specific measurements, and prospective field studies are central
02371|Knowledge-Guided Graph Machine Learning Improves Corn Yield Prediction in the Us Midwest
   > [no abstract]
02372|Circadian Clock Controls Root Hair Elongation through Long-Distance Communication
   > [no term] Plants adapt to periodic environmental changes, such as day and night, by using circadian clocks. Cell division and elongation are primary steps to adjust plant development according to their environments.
02373|Deep Learning Models for Corn Kernel Counting and Yield Estimation
   > [no abstract]
02374|A robust and interpretable deep learning framework for crop health assessment using hybrid CNN feature stacking
   > adapted framework achieves 90.19% accuracy, 79.28% macro-F1, and 89.87% weighted-F1, demonstrating strong cross-domain robustness under realistic field conditions. This framework overcomes limitations of single-model CNNs
02375|Geographical origin identification of Pujiang Kyoho grapes in China using stable isotope and elemental profiles
   > [no abstract]
02376|Lobster Growth Monitoring with AI-Based Computer Vision Using SVM and Neural Network
   > influence lobster farming conditions, including water quality, feed quantity, and lobster species. Another critical factor is disease outbreaks, which can spread rapidly due to the
02377|Remote Sensing and Machine Learning for Monitoring Soil Nitrogen Dynamics and Crop Nitrogen Status in Field Conditions
   > nitrogen status and inferring soil nitrogen indicators, highlighting their performance, limitations, and transferability across environments. Particular emphasis is placed on field-scale applications in heterogeneous and … influence crop responses. Finally, we discuss current challenges, including data scarcity, model generalization, and operational constraints, and outline future directions towar
02378|DiffPlantCT: a training-free, annotation-free approach to cross-species plant CT image segmentation
   > new species. These limitations hinder the application of CT imaging in large-scale cross-species plant phenotyping analysis. Therefore, developing annotation-free and training-free plant CT image segmentation … and application value in reducing research costs and promoting the efficiency of cross-species analysis. To achieve this, we introduce an unsupervised zero-shot segmentation framework for c
02379|Deciphering gene regulation from gene expression dynamics using deep neural network
   > [no term] Abstract Complex biological functions are carried out by the interaction of genes and proteins. Uncovering the gene regulation network behind a function is one of the central themes in biology.
02380|Exploratory Data Analysis and Supervised Learning in Plant Phenotyping Studies
   > [no term] Abstract This study investigates the use of exploratory data analysis and supervised learning techniques to analyze plant phenotyping traits, with a specific focus on: i) genetic diversity (wild type vs
02381|Ayurvedic Plant Identification System using Deep Learning Based Image Processing
   > demonstrates an efficient and scalable approach for automated medicinal plant recognition in real-world conditions.
02382|Machine learning for unmanned aerial vehicles-based soybean phenotyping: limits of cross-environment transfer and opportunities to reduce field measur
   > of manual measurements in multi-environment breeding trials. However, the reliability of models trained on spectral data to predict structural traits across genotypes and environments remains … for calibration, non-linear models showed a high apparent accuracy. However, prediction in unseen seasons failed for all models, reflecting strong genotype × environment interactions. Under
02383|Automated Recognition of Medicinal Plants in the Wild: A Leaf-centric Approach
   > explores the use of technology to simplify the identification of medicinal plants in the wild by focusing on leaf characteristics. Using convolutional neural networks (CNNs),
02384|Development of Land Cover Classification Model Using AI Based FusionNet Network
   > used to train the model. For model validation, two spatial and temporal different sites, one from Subuk-myeon of Jeonnam province in 2018 and the other
02385|Cross-Facility Reliable Deep Learning-Based Beef Marbling Assessment Via Unsupervised Domain Adaptation Regression
   >  Highlights First unsupervised domain adaptation applied to beef marbling prediction. ResNet-50 DA model reduces cross-facility grading … variability and subjectivity. This paper introduces the first known application of unsupervised domain adaptation regression for cross-facility beef marbling score prediction. This is an innovation that improves generalization across diverse environments in the 
02386|Assessment of land use and land cover dynamics and its impact in direct runoff generation estimation using SCS CN method
   > [no abstract]
02387|SREM-CNN: A Near-Infrared Spectroscopy-Based method for Determining lignocellulosic composition in crop straw through spectral Reorganization and Cros
   > the combination band region, first overtone region, and second overtone region. After independent normalization and alignment, the reorganized spectrum is used as the input of … Compared with representative linear, kernel-based, ensemble, and deep learning baselines, SREM-CNN reduced independent-test RMSE by 13.64 %, 13.91 %, and 9.87 % for cellulose, hemicellulose,
02388|Gnn-Pinn: A Physics-Guided Graph Neural Network Framework for Soil Temperature Forecasting
   > [no abstract]
02389|Optimization of The Budget of The Industrial Complex Transformation Strategy Based on Neural Network Modeling
   > of the industrial complexes of Voronezh, Lipetsk, Kursk and a number of other regions have been identified. A methodological technique has been developed that allows
02390|Software Integration of Power System Measurement Devices with AI Capabilities
   > [no term] The latest changes on the distribution network due to the presence of distributed energy resources (DERs) and electric vehicles make it necessary to monitor the grid using a real-time high-precision
02391|Study on the Identification and Detection of Walnut Quality Based on Terahertz Imaging
   > image of the walnuts is collected to extract the spectral information in different regions of interest. Four kinds of time domain signals in different regions of interest are extracted, and three qualitative discrimination models are established,
02392|Chronic gamma radiation resistance in fungi correlates with resistance to chromium and elevated temperatures, but not with resistance to acute irradia
   > [no term] Exposure to chronic ionizing radiation (CIR) from nuclear power plant accidents, acts of terrorism, and space exploration poses serious threats to humans. Fungi are a group of highly radiation-resistant eukaryotes,
02393|Sugarcane Plant Disease Classification Based on Leaf Image Using ConvNeXt V2 Deep Learning Model
   > combined with an ensemble Stratified K-Fold Cross Validation strategy (K=6) to improve generalization on real-world field data. A dataset of 2,948 leaf images spanning five … 0.58% across six folds and a test accuracy of 98.39% on 427 unseen field images, with macro-average precision, recall, and F1-score each reaching 98%. ConvNeXt
02394|Predicting Elephant Crop-Raiding with Machine Learning to Inform Conservation Planning: A Case Study Comparing the Performance and Tradeoffs of GeoAI 
   > model outperformed all others on testing data, suggesting it will scale to other regions. Beyond prediction, our work emphasizes the promise of GeoAI as a … mitigation methods that are locally salient, evidence-based, and cost-effective. Our work provides transferable insights for integrating GeoAI into environmental management to address human–wildlife conflict and
02395|High-throughput discovery of genetic determinants of circadian misalignment
   > [no term] Circadian systems provide a fitness advantage to organisms by allowing them to adapt to daily changes of environmental cues, such as light/dark cycles. The molecular mechanism underlying the circadian clock
02396|A Smart Security Drones for Farms Using Software Architecture
   > kill and destroy a farm's livestock. For this reason, productivity in agriculture decreases over time resulting in poor production of crops and even killing of
02397|Prognostic value, DNA variation and immunologic features of a tertiary lymphoid structure-related chemokine signature in clear cell renal cell carcino
   > [no abstract]
02398|Wild Animals Detection and Alert System Using Deep Learning
   > [no term] Human-wildlife conflicts have become one of the greatest conservation and safety issues in Asia and Africa and have resulted in thousands of deaths and millions of dollars in agricultural damages
02399|A Comprehensive Review Of AI-Driven Crop Recommendation Systems Using Deep Learning: Architectures, Datasets, And Future Research Directions
   > during implementation, including data sparsity, imbalance, lack of interpretability, computation limitations and cross-region generalizability problems. In addition to that, the study reviews some of the existing
02400|ATPPred: Prediction of Plant ATP-Binding Proteins Using ESM2 and 1D Convolution
   > 0.9669 ± 0.0030 across thresholds from 0.4 to 0.9, highlighting its robustness. Cross-dataset benchmarking of ATPPred further validated the effectiveness of our framework, showcasing superior
02401|Cross-Domain Tomato Disease Classification via Flexible Contrastive Clustering in Vision-Language Models
   > Plant disease detection systems face significant challenges in cross-domain generalization, particularly when transitioning from controlled laboratory settings to diverse field conditions. Traditional deep learning approaches exhibit severe performance degradation across different imaging environments, limiting practical deployment in real-world agricultural scenarios. This … Contrastive Clusterin
02402|Fpga-accelerated IoT Deployment of a Causal- Attention Multi-modal Deep Learning Network for Precision Crop Disease Monitoring
   > [no abstract]
02403|A Methodological Critique of Machine Learning in Tanzanian Agriculture: Rigor, Reproducibility, and a Roadmap for Real-World Impact
   > are hindered by: (1) training on data that does not accurately represent real-world conditions, (2) insufficient validation methods (such as the absence of spatial or
02404|A systematic review of artificial intelligence and conventional methods for detecting soil pollution
   > their advantages, AI approaches face challenges including limited high-quality datasets, lack of transferability across soil types, and insufficient integration with risk assessment frameworks. This review
02405|Scrutinizing Urbanization in Kathmandu Using Google Earth Engine Together with Proximity-Based Scenario Modelling
   > urban area. The overall accuracy of this classification process ranged 0.96–1.00 for different years. The scenario modelling further elaborated an amiability of drastic shift in
02406|PLEKv2: predicting lncRNAs and mRNAs based on intrinsic sequence features and the coding-net model
   > PLEK, and NcResNet, respectively. The accuracy of PLEKv2 was > 90% for cross-species prediction. PLEKv2 is more effective and robust than CPC2, CNCI, LncADeep, PLEK,
02407|How Evolution Learns to Generalise: Principles of under-fitting, over-fitting and induction in the evolution of developmental organisation
   > conservative nature, favour developmental organisations that facilitate adaptive evolution in future previously unseen environments? Such capacity suggests a form of \textit{foresight} facilitated by the ability … discover such regularities is analogous to the ability of learning systems to generalise from past experience. Conversely, the canalisation of evolved developmental processes to past
02408|Multi-sensor fusion for multi-scale crop recognition and its implications for precision crop management: A comprehensive review
   > [no abstract]
02409|Empowering Local Agriculture: A Deep Learning-Powered Web System for Identifying Bangladeshi Mango Varieties
   > can have similar visual characteristics and images are often captured under varying real-world conditions. This work presents a deep learning-based web system for automatic identification … (15%), and test (15%) sets, with image augmentation applied to improve model generalization. Three pretrained CNN architectures, ResNet18, ResNet50, and EfficientNetB0, were fine-tuned under consistent
02410|DeepPlant: An Accurate Cross-Species 5mC Detection Tool for Oxford Nanopore Sequencing in Plants
   > [no abstract]
02411|TOWARDS LIFELONG CROP RECOGNITION USING FULLY CONVOLUTIONAL RECURRENT NETWORKS AND SAR IMAGE SEQUENCES
   > only been evaluated in a single agricultural year, and their capabilities to generalize to dates outside the temporal sequence have not been properly addressed thus far. This work assesses the generalization capabilities of a recent convolutional recurrent architecture, testing it in a temporal … the second goes from October 2019 to September 2020. Results show a decrease of up to 24.6% in per-dat
02412|Improving cross-domain spectroscopic measurement of soil organic matter using transfer learning for orchard soils in northern China
   > spectroscopy provides a rapid approach for SOM estimation; however, prediction performance often decreases across geographic regions because of differences in soil properties and spectral distributions. To address this challenge, this study focused on cross-domain SOM prediction for orchard soils in northern China. A total of 760 … were measured. The European LUCAS soil spectral library was used a
02413|A Model for Yield Estimation Based on Sea Buckthorn Images
   > [no term] Sea buckthorn is an extremely drought-tolerant, resilient and sustainable crop that can be grown in areas with harsh climates and scarce resources to provide a source of nutrition and income
02414|An Interpretable Model for Salinity Inversion Assessment of the South Bank of the Yellow River Based on Optuna Hyperparameter Optimization and XGBoost
   > Soil salinization is a serious land degradation phenomenon, posing a severe threat to regional agricultural resource utilization and sustainable … factors. Notably, the same inversion factor influenced varying soil salinity estimates at different locations. The saline soils of the study area in 2019 and 2023 were 65% and 44%, respectively, and the overall trend of soil salinization decreased. From
02415|Beyond Accuracy: A Controlled Comparative Glaucoma Screening Benchmark Across Deep Learning and Hybrid Models Under Within- and Cross-Dataset Conditio
   > screening using colour fundus photography have shown strong internal performance; however, their external validity and calibration reliability remain uncertain. This study developed a controlled four-dataset … a compact convolutional neural network (CNN). Performance was assessed in within-dataset and cross-dataset settings using discrimination metrics, including accuracy, area under the receiver 
02416|Physical Artificial Intelligence for Powering the Next Revolution in Robotics
   > physical AI leverages sensorimotor coupling to enable real-time adaptation, experiential learning, and generalized task performance. Advances in machine learning, high-fidelity simulations, and multimodal sensing have … adaptive, and mission-ready robotic systems, offering readers a roadmap for research priorities, cross-domain insights, and practical implications that will shape the next era of r
02417|Harnessing Explainable AI and Machine Learning for Dual Predictive Modeling of Car Goodwill and Crop MSP in Price and Policy Forecasting
   > simultaneously predicts car goodwill values and crop Minimum Support Prices (MSP), enabling cross-domain analysis while maintaining model interpretability. Comparative experiments are conducted using multiple machine
02418|Hybrid modelling approach for water body change detection at Chalan Beel area in northern Bangladesh
   > [no abstract]
02419|panomiX: Investigating mechanisms of trait emergence through multi-omics data integration
   > and Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy data, with the aim of identification of condition-specific, cross-domain relationships between gene expression, metabolite levels, and phenotypic traits. Our approach identified
02420|Transformer-Based Hybrid Convolution Attention Framework for Plant Species Classification
   > validated through comparative experiments, ablation studies, effective receptive field (ERF) analysis, and cross-dataset evaluation. TB-HCAF achieves high Top-1 accuracy on PlantCLEF 2015, surpassing representative baseline models, and further demonstrates strong zero-shot cross-dataset generalization on Oxford 102 Flowers and iNaturalist 2018. ERF analysis confirms improved discrimination
02421|Improvement of spatial prediction of soil depth via earth observation
   > [no abstract]
02422|Spatiotemporal Analysis of Land Cover and the Effects on Ecosystem Service Values in Rupandehi, Nepal from 2005 to 2020
   > forest classes had been subjected to fluctuations with barren land in the decreasing trend. This alteration in the area of the LC classes also resulted … studies in Nepal to overcome the current limitations and later expansion to other regions. Studies such as these help in implementing proper plans and strategies
02423|Deep Learning-Based Monitoring of Tea Plant Growth and Nitrogen Status Using UAV Multisource Remote Sensing Features
   > (MLP), convolutional neural network (CNN), and transformer models were evaluated using a leave-one-site-out cross-validation (LOSO-CV) strategy. The selected TFIs showed strong associations with tea growth
02424|Improved Monitoring of Honey bee Colony Strength via Audio IoT Sensors, Modulation Tensorgrams and Recurrent Neural Networks
   > recordings, we show that the proposed method improves both accuracy and cross-hive generalizability over prior benchmark methods, and the results further suggest improved robustness to … dynamics for the task at hand. Overall, our results suggest that accurate, generalizable, and robust acoustic monitoring of honey bee colony strength is possible.
02425|Beyond static snapshots: predicting dynamic, explainable intermediate phenotypes for climate-resilient crop breeding
   > dynamic processes that determine them.Classical GP models, including multi-omics-informed variants, are overwhelmingly trained on traits measured at single time points, such as final yield or … yield by 7-11% under field conditions (Wang et al., 2026b). These two independent advances, one data-driven and one mechanism-driven, converge on the same insight: incorporating
02426|Transfer learning and multi-branch intermediate fusion deep neural network for wheat nitrogen concentration monitoring using multi-scale multi-modal r
   > [no abstract]
02427|Poor air quality raises mortality in honey bees, a concern for all pollinators
   > [no term] Human well-being relies on the presence and role of pollinators, as they contribute to the vitality of ecosystems, support the reproduction of wild plants, increase crop yields, and strengthen overall
02428|PopGenAdapt: Semi-Supervised Domain Adaptation for Genotype-to-Phenotype Prediction in Underrepresented Populations
   > gap, this paper presents PopGenAdapt, a genotype-to-phenotype prediction model which adopts semi-supervised domain adaptation (SSDA) techniques originally proposed for computer vision. PopGenAdapt is designed to
02429|Developing a forest description from remote sensing: Insights from New Zealand
   > real-time monitoring of planted forests at all scales and is adaptable to other regions with similar data availability.
02430|Cotton cultivated area detection and yield monitoring combining remote sensing with field data in lower Indus River basin, Pakistan
   > [no abstract]
02431|Cross-species prediction of essential genes in insects through machine learning and sequence-based attributes
   > [no term] Abstract Insects are organisms with a vast phenotypic diversity and key ecological roles. Several insect species also have medical, agricultural and veterinary importance as parasites and vectors of diseases. Therefore,
02432|Comparative Analysis of Modified Wasserstein Generative Adversarial Network with Gradient Penalty for Synthesizing Agricultural Weed Images
   > [no term] This study investigates the application of modified Wasserstein Generative Adversarial Networks with Gradient Penalty (WGAN-GP) to generate synthetic RGB and infrared (IR) datasets for precision agriculture, particularly targeting the detection
02433|Deep Learning for Tomato Disease Detection and Severity Assessment: A Systematic Analytical Review of Methods, Datasets, and Challenges
   > [no abstract]
02434|Cross-country generalization bias in agricultural production: do machine learning models learn the same way?
   > evaluate models within the same national context, implicitly assuming their ability to generalize across different settings. This paper explicitly investigates the existence of a cross-country generalization bias by assessing whether ML models trained on data from one country retain adequate predictive performance when applied to … in which supervised models are trained exclusively on one country 
02435|Wild fire prediction using machine learning models
   > [no term] Wildfires can be very destructive and can cause a great loss to human life and property. The United States have witnessed an estimated loss of 13.7 billion dollars’ worth of
02436|Honey yield prediction and neonicotinoid risk assessment utilizing a machine learning framework in smart agriculture
   > facilitates precision focused beekeeping by identifying yield risk zones and can be generalized to other regions facing pollinator stress, offering a robust and interpretable solution for sustainable
02437|Robustness of radiomics-based machine learning to real-world MRI distribution shifts: a phantom study
   > This study systematically investigates the robustness of radiomics-based machine learning models to distribution shifts caused by variations in MRI acquisition protocols and image segmentation strategies, … Model performance and calibration were evaluated under in-domain, cross-protocol, segmentation-induced, and compound distribution shift scenarios using a nested, group-wise (leave-one-row-out) 
02438|A Syntactic Information–Based Classification Model for Medical Literature: Algorithm Development and Validation Study
   > convolutional neural network to enhance nonlocal syntactic interactions. Second, we devise a cross-domain pruning method to equalize local and nonlocal syntactic interactions. RESULTS: We experimented
02439|An artificial intelligence approach for modeling nachos developed from bhimkol banana (Musa balbisiana) blossom
   > [no term] Abstract The study comprises the investigation of nutrition, phytocomponents, antioxidant activities, antibacterial activities, formulation, and optimization of nachos from underutilized bhimkol (Musa balbisiana) blossom by metaheuristic approach: optimal mixture designed
02440|On a neural network approach to reliability assessing of automated enterprise control systems at nuclear power facilities
   > components. The training set has been generated based on a model of independent failures using Monte Carlo simulation of 100,000 scenarios, including rare events and … developed model approximates the numerical reliability indicator in scaled units. However, in real-world conditions when accurate reliability calculations are essential, the relative error becomes a
02441|A Proof of Concept Neural Network Watchdog using a Hybrid Generative Classifier For Optimized Outlier Detection.
   > a banana. A neural network watchdog may be implemented to identify such out-of-distribution inputs, allowing a classifier to disregard such data. By building a hybrid
02442|Weak-to-Gold Label Training of Spatio-Temporal Deep Learning Models for Cross-Region Coffee and Forest Segmentation
   > with regards to separating it from forest, as well as across multiple different regions. One of the reasons for this is the lack of reliable … weak-to-gold label pre-training and fine-tuning strategy to teach a spatio-temporal model both generalisability (from the weak label pre-training) and precision (from the fine-tuning). Our model
02443|Multisource Satellite Data-Driven Machine Learning Approach for Rice Yield Prediction
   > for the period 2017–2021 were used to train the models, which were independently tested on 2022 data and then applied to predict the rice yield in 2023. Leave-One-Year-Out (LOYO) cross-validation was also conducted on the 2017–2022 data to assess temporal robustness and generalization capability across years. Among the evaluated models, Random Forest exhibited the best overall performance. For the
02444|Diagnostic accuracy of keystroke dynamics as digital biomarkers for fine motor decline in neuropsychiatric disorders: a systematic review and meta-ana
   > [no term] Abstract The unmet timely diagnosis requirements, that take place years after substantial neural loss and neuroperturbations in neuropsychiatric disorders, affirm the dire need for biomarkers with proven efficacy. In Parkinson’s
02445|Replicability of unsupervised deep learning derived image phenotypes
   > the replicability of unsupervised deep-learning image phenotypes under variation in model initialization, data partitioning, and cohort, directly evaluating their stability across experimental conditions. We trained … under (i) different training batch random seeds, (ii) cross-validation splits, and (iii) independent datasets (UKB and ADNI), across CNN and ViT architectures,. We then derived
02446|Artificial Neural Network for Soiling Prediction on Csp: Experimental Measurements, Modeling and Multi-Weather Validation
   > [no abstract]
02447|TabPFN correction of climate-zoned crop-model residuals improves regional winter wheat yield estimation
   > [no abstract]
02448|Prediction of soil nutrients through PLSR and SVMR models by VIs-NIR reflectance spectroscopy
   > based soil nutrient and soil suitability prediction can be easily adopted in different regions. This will reduce the cost of laboratory soil analysis and optimize
02449|How to Affect the Number of Images on the Success Rate for Detection of Weeds with Deep Learning
   > [no term] The detection of weeds with computer vision without the help of an expert is important for scientific studies and other purposes. The images used for the detection of weeds are
02450|From reactive to proactive: impact of artificial intelligence on management and selection of livestock
   > inclusion of AI-assisted support tools in livestock production systems will increase in future years, the sector is currently in an “early-adopter” phase, where only the
02451|A phenomenological cartography of misophonia and other forms of sound intolerance
   > triggers and non-triggers) and, moreover, cross-classification showed that the profile was largely transferable across sounds (rather than idiosyncratic for each sound). By splitting our participants
02452|Detection of crops from satellite images for biomass fuzzy estimation: A case study on oil palm crops in Colombia
   > [no abstract]
02453|Deep-track: A real-time animal detection and monitoring system for mitigating human-wildlife conflict in fringe areas
   > [no abstract]
02454|Early In-Season County-Level Crop Yield Prediction Across the U.S. Corn Belt Using a Hybrid LSTM-Transformer Model
   > [no abstract]
02455|MIRANDA: MId-feature RANk-adversarial Domain Adaptation toward climate change-robust ecological forecasting with deep learning
   > superior performance. However, mechanistic models tend to outperform deep networks when data distribution shifts are induced by climate change. Domain Adaptation (DA) techniques could help address this limitation. Yet, unlike standard DA … earlier start of spring. To tackle this challenge, we introduce Mid-feature Rank-adversarial Domain Adaptation (MIRANDA). Whereas conventional adversarial metho
02456|SARS-CoV-2–Positive Sputum and Feces After Conversion of Pharyngeal Samples in Patients With COVID-19
   > [no term] Letters30 March 2020SARS-CoV-2–Positive Sputum and Feces After Conversion of Pharyngeal Samples in Patients With COVID-19FREEChen Chen, PhD, Guiju Gao, MD, Yanli Xu, MD, Lin Pu, MD, Qi Wang, MD, Liming
02457|PRSOT: Precipitation Retrieval from Satellite Observations Based on Transformer
   > gap of ground rain gauges and weather radars in deserts, oceans, and other regions. In this algorithm, the multispectral infrared brightness temperatures from Himawari-8, the
02458|Automated Face Authentication and Alert System Using AI
   > [no term] Local animals such as buffaloes, elephants, goats, birds, and others frequently kill farm crops. Farmers lose a lot of money as a result. Farmers cannot barricade whole fields or remain
02459|Transfer Learning for Image Processing: A Review and Practical Considerations
   > and massive annotated datasets, transfer learning significantly reduces training time and improves generalization by leveraging previously learned feature representations. This paper presents a comprehensive review … research examines key transfer learning methods, such as feature extraction, fine-tuning, and domain adaptation, and offers a comparative assessment of popular pretrained models like 
02460|Machine Vision and Handcrafted Image Processing Methods for Classifying Common Weeds in Corn Field
   > [no abstract]
02461|Tiny Invaders, Big Trouble: Emerging Nematode Threats in the United States
   > currently limited geographic distribution but posing a significant threat if introduced to new environments. We list these nematodes based on their host range, potential economic
02462|Crop phenotype prediction using SNP context and whole-genome feature embedding based on DNABERT-2
   > two novel feature embedding modes (SNP-context and whole-genome) based on DNABERT-2, a cross-species genomic foundation model that uses self-attention mechanisms and transfer learning to automatically
02463|Enhancing Rice Yield Prediction Through Cross-Sensor Time-Series Integration
   > at the plot level. The framework was structured in five phases: (i) cross-sensor consistency assessment of red, near-infrared, and NDVI values across platform pairs; (ii) … using partial least squares regression (PLSR), Random Forest, and XGBoost under nested leave-one-out cross-validation. The framework was evaluated on 72 irrigated rice plots (37 in 2022, 35 in 2023) in Lambayeque, northern Peru
02464|Vegetable Breeding: Status and Strategies
   > [no term] Vegetable crops are a crucial component of the global food supply chain, with a vast range of variety, flavor profiles, and nutritional value, making them a staple meal of many
02465|High plasticity increases phenotype-environment mismatch leading to sub-optimal performance in underutilized crop species
   > models, we found that temperature was a primary driver of plastic responses. Generalized Additive Model (GAM) reaction norm analysis further revealed these temperature-induced responses to be maladaptive, suggesting a mismatch between Amaranthus ’ traits and the new environment. Applying transfer learning to predict responses in native settings, we found
02466|From bench to field: A systematic review of computer vision for tomato detection in precision agriculture (2018–2025)
   > differences. However, tomato detection performance significantly drops in deployment, with a mean cross-domain performance loss of 8.24% due to occlusion, illumination changes, and weather conditions. … into concrete technical specifications, and 3) open research directions centered on reliability, cross-domain validation, and real-world deployment. This survey will support practitioners in agricu
02467|CBS: a hybrid deep-learning framework and online platform for plant promoter activity prediction and candidate screening
   > motifs, contextual dependencies, and sequence-wide combinatorial effects within standardized promoter windows. Moreover, domain shifts across species and assay systems (leaf and protoplast) make robust regression … robust performance within the benchmarked species and assay settings; zero-shot transfer to unseen species remains future work.
02468|AI Powered System for Early Plant Disease Detection
   > methods [9], [14] contribute to earlier and more precise disease detection under real-world conditions. While datasets like PlantVillage have enabled high model accuracy, studies highlight challenges in generalization to field environments [4]. Techniques including transfer learning [12], federated learning [17],
02469|Determination of Besatz in Cereals Using Physical Analysis Instrument Based on Imaging and Artificial Neural Network Technology
   > [no term] In Türkiye, cereal products are classified according to their quality and then bought by public and private sector organizations. Physical analyses conducted according to standards focus on the definition of
02470|Modeling the effects of climate change scenarios on the potential distribution of Vespa crabro Linnaeus, 1758 (Hymenoptera: Vespidae) in a Mediterrane
   > an ensemble framework with three machine learning algorithms: Artificial Neural Networks (ANN), Generalized Boosting Model (GBM), and Random Forest (RF). To ensure reliable predictions, we … sampling biases and spatial autocorrelation. The individual models were weighted based on spatial cross-validation performance and combined to obtain the ensemble model. Performance varied among
02471|Environmental constraints and diffusion shaped the global transition to food production
   > shift in the economic history of early Holocene societies. This process unfolded independently in different regions of the globe, resulting in varied plant assemblages, cultivation strategies, dietary
02472|High‐resolution satellite imagery and machine learning for predicting yield and nitrogen uptake in potatoes
   > framework, model performance declined substantially, with negative R 2 values, indicating limited generalization across experiments. These findings demonstrate that while high‐resolution satellite imagery combined with ML can provide accurate in‐season predictions within a given experimental setting, model transferability across environments remains a critical limitation. The results highlight the
02473|An Explainable Hybrid Deep Learning–Fuzzy Decision Framework for Human-Centered Plant Stress Severity Assessment
   > [no abstract]
02474|Population genomics reveal multiple introductions and admixture of Sonchus oleraceus in Australia
   > oleraceus in Australia by comparing the population genetic structure of individuals at different locations in Australia, and in the most likely areas of origin in
02475|An ensemble model of knowledge- and data-driven geospatial methods for mapping groundwater potential in a data-scarce, semi-arid fractured rock region
   > Leigh Creek in the northern Flinders Ranges, the methodology is applicable to other regions with minimal well datasets worldwide. This research also contributes to addressing
02476|Deep Learning on Routine Gram-Stain Images to Estimate ESBL Risk in Urinary Escherichia Coli and Distinguish Staphylococcus Aureus from Coagulase-Nega
   > [no abstract]
02477|A stomata imaging and segmentation pipeline incorporating generative AI to reduce dependency on manual groundtruthing
   > segmentation accuracy across species, reducing manual relabeling requirements. This approach enables seamless cross-species model adaptation for many cases, alleviating the annotation bottleneck that often limits
02478|Knowledge-guided deep learning improves estimation of rice aboveground biomass
   > [no abstract]
02479|The research on enhancing LA estimation accuracy across domains for small sample data based on data augmentation and data transfer integration optimiz
   > phenotyping technologies primarily depend on homogenized large sample datasets. These models encounter generalization challenges when applied to heterogeneous scenarios with small sample sizes. Objective In … This framework integrates machine learning models to establish a universal solution for cross-domain LA estimation in data-scarce situations. Methods This research utilizes canopy image data
02480|Designing a Dispatch Engine for Hybrid Renewable Power Stations Using a Mixed-Integer Linear Programming Technique
   > to load and the wind and PV power outputs are obtained from different locations in the Sultanate of Oman. The real-time data are utilized to
02481|Object Detection in Optical Remote Sensing Images: A Systematic Review of Methods, Benchmarks, and Operational Applications
   > scale variation spanning 2–3 orders of magnitude within single scenes, and (3) domain adaptation failures when models encounter new geographic regions or sensor characteristics. This
02482|Physics-informed cross-site estimation of sensible heat flux over croplands with sample-level reliability screening
   > [no abstract]
02483|Cross-batch calibration of sugarcane disease classification models based on visible and near-infrared spectroscopy using deep learning-based domain ad
   > Visible-near infrared (Vis-NIR) spectroscopy provides rapid crop disease assessment; however, poor model generalizability remains a major limitation when models developed for a specific period are … which induce shifts in spectral distributions across batches. This study investigates deep domain adaptation to enhance cross-batch transferability for sugarcane disease classification. Two batches of 
02484|EvoPlantMeth: an interpretable deep learning framework reveals DNA methylation evolution and functional elements in plants
   > [no abstract]
02485|Deciphering the 3D genome organization across species from Hi-C data
   > different biological mechanisms. Species-specific factors and DNA sequences influence chromatin folding, complicating cross-species comparisons. Leveraging Hi-C data and machine learning, we introduce Chimaera — a … organisms also showed chromatin folding patterns associated with gene location. Finally, using cross-species predictions we tested the transferability of chromatin folding patterns and
02486|Mapping Vegetation at Species Level with High-Resolution Multispectral and Lidar Data Over a Large Spatial Area: A Case Study with Kudzu
   > and sampling intensive. Here, we designed a two-step classification workflow to potentially decrease computational cost and sampling effort and to increase classification accuracy by integrating … in this research, and could be easily implemented to map kudzu in other regions as well as map other vegetation species.
02487|Harnessing DNA Foundation Models for Cross-Species Transcription Factor Binding Site Prediction in Plant Genomes
   > [no term] Abstract Accurate prediction of transcription factor binding sites (TFBSs) is crucial for understanding gene regulation. While experimental methods such as ChIP-seq and DAP-seq are informative, they are labor-intensive and species-specific.
02488|A multi-scale supervised contrastive framework for cross-domain soybean disease classification using leaf and UAV imagery
   > approaches treat these two sensing modalities separately without properly exploring cross-scale feature transferability or measuring the domain gap that exists between the sensing scales. As … structured pre-processing pipeline and further applied to reduce illumination bias and enhance cross-domain feature consistency. Six deep learning backbones were comprehensively evaluated for leaf-level clas
02489|Cascaded deep capsule neural network with geometry-aware transformer for efficient disease identification in Golden Nutri Cereal
   > [no abstract]
02490|CAFE-DETR: A Sesame Plant and Weed Classification and Detection Algorithm Based on Context-Aware Feature Enhancement
   > in intelligent spraying systems and precision agriculture platforms. Notably, this study lacks external validation, cross-dataset testing, and field trials, which limits the generalizability of the model to diverse real-world agricultural scenarios.
02491|A Multi-Fruit Leaf Image Dataset for Disease and Growth Stage Classification in Real-World Agricultural Environments
   > [no term] Accurate and scalable plant disease recognition remains a critical challenge in precision agriculture, particularly in resource-constrained South Asian environments. To address this gap, a comprehensive and heterogeneous multi-fruit leaf dataset
02492|UAV-Based Multi-Label Weed Detection for Site-Specific Weed Management Using a Multi-Scale Convolutional Attention Network
   > protocols that rarely assess complete multi-label agreement together with field perturbations and cross-dataset transfer. To address these gaps, this study proposes AgroWeed-MCANet, a multi-scale convolutional … noisy sensing conditions; and the Multi-Label Agreement Score (MLAS), robustness analysis, and cross-dataset evaluation provide field-oriented performance validation. Experiments were cond
02493|Quantitative Analysis of Coal Quality by a Portable Laser Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy and Three Chemometrics Methods
   > [no term] Laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy (LIBS) technology has the characteristics of small sample demand, simple sample preparation, simultaneous measurement of multiple elements and safety, which has great potential application in the rapid
02494|Prototype Results of an Internet of Things System Using Wearables and Artificial Intelligence for the Detection of Frailty in Elderly People
   > to be frail. A functional prototype was successfully developed and tested under real-world conditions. This paper introduces the methodology that was used to analyze the
02495|Comparison of various chemometric methods on visible and near-infrared spectral analysis for wood density prediction among different tree species and 
   > and response surface methodology (RSM) were employed to optimize the parameters of generalized regression neural network (GRNN) and particle swarm optimization-support vector machine (PSO-SVM), respectively. … optimal chemometric method was different for the same tree species collected from different locations. FOA-GRNN model combined with LWT and CARS deliver the best performance
02496|MobileNetV2-Based Transfer Learning for Real- Time Plant Disease Detection: A Lightweight Deep Learning Approach Using the PlantVillage Dataset
   > baselines by over 6 percentage points, and attains 79.5% Top-1 accuracy on out-of-distribution field images. With 4.2M total parameters, the architecture is suitable for TensorFlow
02497|Detection of Green Asparagus Using Improved Mask R-CNN for Automatic Harvesting
   > detection head unit. The training and test images were mainly acquired from different regions in the basin of the Yangtze River. During the capturing process,
02498|Improved YOLOv8 Algorithm was Used to Segment Cucumber Seedlings Under Complex Artificial Light Conditions
   > after MSFM, enabling the model to flexibly adjust the attention allocated to different regions within the image, thus enhancing its robustness to complex lighting variations.
02499|Structure-informed Siamese graph neural networks classify CirA missense variants with implications for cefiderocol susceptibility
   > [no term] Cefiderocol uptake in Enterobacterales depends partly on TonB-dependent catecholate transporters, including CirA, yet the functional interpretation of CirA missense variation remains limited by an absence of large experimental phenotype datasets.
02500|A Conditional Generative Adversarial Network for Weather Radar Beam Blockage Correction
   > conditions, and ground information in different areas, two radars deployed in two different regions characterized by different precipitation types are used to demonstrate the proposed … both KDAX and KFWS radar data. The trained models were tested using independent precipitation events in Texas and California to demonstrate the model effectiveness in
02501|Learning functional conservation between human and pig to decipher evolutionary mechanisms underlying gene expression and complex traits
   > complex traits and diseases in humans. Our results highlight the importance of cross-species functional comparison in illustrating the genetic and evolutionary basis of complex phenotypes.
02502|Helotiales fungi as potential nutritional partners for non-mycorrhizal plants: a machine learning and experimental approach
   > mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis for phosphorus (P) acquisition. However, several plant lineages have independently lost this symbiosis, raising fundamental questions about how these ‘non-mycorrhizal’ plants meet … and Brassicaceae lack genes essential for AM symbiosis, indicating that these lineages independently abandoned this association 90–122 million years ago. Field surveys of 42 wild
02503|Mapping tea plantation area using phenology algorithm, time-series Sentinel-2 and Landsat images
   > other years, and also offers a reference for identifying tea plantation in other regions. Additionally, this paper generated a map of classified phenological indicators to
02504|NIMG-52. PREDICTION OF SURVIVAL OUTCOME WITH RADIOLOGICAL PHENOTYPES IN IDH-WILD TYPE LOWER GRADE GLIOMAS BASED ON MACHINE LEARNING
   > PFS prediction, respectively, with statistical significance (p < 0.05). RRS_E was an independent predictor for both OS (HR 2.62) and PFS (HR 2.80). RRS derived from MRI features using machine learning was independent predictors for survival in patients with IDH-wild type lower grade gliomas. Radiological
02505|Deep Learning-Based Detection of Potato Leaf Diseases Using ResNet-50 with Mobile Application Deployment
   > image dataset. Preprocessing steps included data augmentation and normalization to enhance model generalization. The model achieved a high accuracy of 99.31%, with precision, recall, and … scalable solution for early disease detection in agriculture. Future work may explore cross-crop adaptability and lightweight model optimization for real-time performance on low-resource devices.
02506|A machine learning residual correction framework for enhancing physical-based evapotranspiration estimates over croplands
   > optimization via a gradient boosting algorithm. A rigorous 70%–30% train-test split with spatial cross-validation prevented data leakage and overfitting. Five key residual drivers were identified:
02507|Mapping foodscapes and sagebrush morphotypes with unmanned aerial systems for multiple herbivores
   > [no abstract]
02508|Predicted Hotspot Map Dataset for Endangered Wild Plants in the Republic of Korea
   > [no term] This study applied species distribution models (SDM) to terrestrial plants classified as Endangered Wild Species within the plant taxa, creating a hotspot (species richness) map covering the entire territory of
02509|BoltNet: An Ultra-Lightweight Convolutional Network for On-Device Plant Species Identification
   > [no term] Automated plant species identification from citizen-science imagery is an established, demanding fine-grained recognition problem: large taxonomic label spaces, visually similar species, and long-tailed observations require real model capacity, while field
02510|An Efficient Attention-Gated Hybrid Transformer-CNN Framework for Plant Disease Segmentation In-the-Wild
   > [no abstract]
02511|AgroitLite: A Scalable Hierarchical Lightweight CNN for Edge-Based Multi-Crop Disease Detection
   > pipeline consisting of crop identification followed by crop-specific disease classification to mitigate cross-domain misclassification. The architecture employs depthwise sep- arable convolutions and global average pooling
02512|IoT Based Smart Irrigation System using Artificial Intelligence
   > [no term] This proposed of the project introduces an innovative IoT-based AI-driven solution engineered to revolutionize water management in agricultural contexts, catering to both large-scale piped irrigation networks and micro-irrigation systems. Our
02513|Modeling the seasonal wildfire cycle and its possible effects on the distribution of focal species in Kermanshah Province, western Iran
   > [no term] Predicting environmental disturbances and evaluating their potential impacts on the habitats of various plant and animal species is a suitable strategy for guiding conservation efforts. Wildfires are a type of
02514|How do different drought types influence compound drought in the Yellow River Basin?
   > [no abstract]
02515|Spatiotemporal deep learning models for predictive analytics of crop health deterioration based on satellite remote sensing and unmanned aerial vehicl
   > In sustainable agriculture and food security, proper and timely forecasting of the degradation of crop health is vital. The new deep learning model described in … has the advantage of using a two-stream time-space encoder which is used independently to encode coarse satellite data and fine details of UAV imagery followed
02516|A novel approach for disease and pests detection in potato production system based on deep learning
   > mAP. Results demonstrate promising outcomes under the real-world field conditions, while, broader cross-region and cross-season validation is intended for the future.
02517|Development of a vehicle-mounted soil organic matter detection system based on near-infrared spectroscopy and image information fusion
   > [no term] Abstract In the practical application of farmland, the soil organic matter prediction model established by the traditional near-infrared (NIR) spectroscopy is affected by factors such as soil texture, which leads
02518|Immunologic Profiling of Mutational and Transcriptional Subgroups in Pediatric and Adult High-Grade Gliomas
   > Immune cell expression profiles correlated with transcriptional and mutational subgroups but were independent of age and histologic diagnosis. By including functional pathways and correlating the
02519|Hybrid Time Series Transformer–Deep Belief Network for Robust Anomaly Detection in Mobile Communication Networks
   > However, existing machine learning (ML)-based approaches still face challenges related to poor generalization, weak temporal modeling, and degraded accuracy under heterogeneous and imbalanced real-world conditions. To overcome these limitations, a hybrid time series transformer–deep belief network
02520|Agricultural Field Crop Type Semantic Segmentation and Boundary Extraction from Sentinel-2 Time Series Using Multitask Learning with Directional Featu
   > of Sentinel-2 images acquired from two agricultural areas in Austria, spanning two different years, were used.
02521|AI-Enabled Energy Management for Sustainable Smart Greenhouses: An Integrated Review
   > heuristic controls offer limited adaptability, lack robustness under uncertainty, and do not generalize across climate zones or crop requirements. Recent developments introduce hybrid AI driven … of predictive performance, computational overhead, and deployment feasibility. Recurring challenges including limited transferability across climates, insufficient reporting of techno economic outcomes, a
02522|Automated Fig (Ficus carica L.) variety classification based on deep learning using fruit and leaf images
   > [no abstract]
02523|Comparative Evaluation of Deep Learning and Hybrid CNN–Random Forest Models for Multi-Class Defect Identification in Railway Tracks
   > 6465 images (4525 training/1940 test) across six defect classes, was compiled from real-world conditions on the Indian railway network and used to train and evaluate … show a widening train/validation loss gap consistent with overfitting despite reasonable test-set generalisation. This aggregate accuracy conceals a safety-relevant weakness: MobileNetV2’s recall for Burned Rail,
02524|Integration of environmental variables with deep learning models for nitrogen content estimation in wheat leaves
   > robust within-season performance (RMSE = 0.286 for 2022–23; 0.470 for 2023–24), while cross-season testing highlighted reduced generalisation due to environmental variability. The results demonstrate that integrating environmental covariates with … DenseNet121 + U 2 -Net + weather configuration provides a cost-effective and generalizable framework for real-time nitrogen monitoring, supporting more
02525|Automated masks generation for coffee and apple leaf infected with single or multiple diseases-based color analysis approaches
   > and deals with edges results in curved surfaces and veins being considered new regions of interest. Thresholding of segmentation restricts it to a specific range
02526|Lightweight Deep Learning Models Deployment for Corn Growth Stage Classification Using PhenoCam Images
   > ratio(CMDR) of 0.93, followed by ELiteCrop1 (CMDR = 0.92). Overall, model performance decreased with increasing vertical clipping; therefore, a moderate image clipping (0 %–10 %) … (new test sites) accuracy of 0.48–0.50(Raspberry Pi: 0.41–0.43), indicating challenges with model generalization. Raspberry Pi successfully processed ≈ 1000 images/min under safe operating conditions (68◦C). Future work
02527|Application of Machine Learning Random Forest Algorithm in Digital Soil Mapping of Key Soil Properties for Sustainable Tea Productivity
   > [no abstract]
02528|Specialized Tfh cell subsets driving type-1 and type-2 humoral responses in lymphoid tissue
   > type-2 conditions. We first studied homogenous Tfh cell populations generated by adoptively transferred TCR-transgenic T cells in mice immunized with type-1 and type-2 adjuvants. Using … distinct specialization of GC Tfh cells under the two immunizations and in different regions of the lymph nodes, we found a population of Gzmk+ Tfh
02529|HRU-Net: A Transfer Learning Method for Carotid Artery Plaque Segmentation in Ultrasound Images
   > limited images. The HRU-Net is based on the U-Net encoder−decoder paradigm, and cross-domain knowledge is transferred for plaque segmentation by fine-tuning the pretrained ResNet-50. Moreover, a cropped-blood-vessel image … significant (p < 0.05). Furthermore, our HRU-Net transfer learning method shows fine generalization performance on 75 new images with varying degrees of plaque stenosis, and
02530|Electric-Field Molecular Fingerprinting to Probe Cancer
   > from 0.68 to 0.69 for the other three cancer entities. In an independent held-out test data set, designed to reflect different experimental conditions from those … fingerprinting is a robust technological framework broadly applicable to disease phenotyping under real-world conditions.
02531|Artificial Neural Network Based Emergence Modeling of Carolina Geranium (Geranium carolinianum L.) in Florida Strawberry Row Middles
   > [no abstract]
02532|Unraveling the Spatiotemporal Patterns and Potential Influencing Factors of County-Level Agricultural Carbon Emissions in Guangdong Province Using Int
   > that agricultural carbon emissions in Guangdong Province exhibited a fluctuating but overall decreasing trend, declining from 50.89 Mt CO2-eq in 2000 to 39.24 Mt CO2-eq … performance, with spatial cross-validated R2 values ranging from 0.75 to 0.91 across different years. SHAP analysis suggested that ploughing area, fertilizer and pesticide usage, agricultural
02533|Digital mapping and spatial modeling of some soil physical and mechanical properties in a semi-arid region of Iran
   > [no abstract]
02534|Out-of-year parcel identification using adversarial domain adaptation and multi-temporal satellite imagery to enhance vineyard health monitoring
   > the challenging task of out-of-year vineyard parcel classification, which requires models to generalize across years with varying environmental and climatic conditions. We propose a deep learning framework based on conditional adversarial learning to address temporal domain adaptation in multi-year satellite data. The approach relies on freely available Sentinel-1 … Results show that the proposed 
02535|Integrating deep learning and pangenomics to recover missing heritability from wild structural variations
   > map reticulate evolution with implicit encodings like K-mers that capture sequence composition independent of alignment. Processing these complex and high-dimensional features necessitates advanced computational tools.
02536|Identifying the Feasibility of Agricultural Drones for Site-Specific Liquid Application in Wild Blueberry (Vaccinium angustifolium Ait.)
   > [no term] Perennial weeds are among the largest challenges for wild blueberry (Vaccinium angustifolium Ait.) producers with hair fescue (Festuca filiformis Pourr.), sheep sorrel (Rumex acetosella L.), narrow-leaved goldenrod (Euthamia graminifolia (L)
02537|Deep Learning in Rice Disease Detection: A Systematic Analysis of Techniques, Strategies and Model Generalization
   > concerns remain regarding model overfitting, limited dataset diversity, and insufficient evaluation of generalization performance under real-world conditions. This research provides a structured review of deep learning-based rice leaf … are commonly applied but often lack detailed investigation regarding their impact on generalization performance. These gaps indicate the need for focused research 
02538|Taking it further: Leveraging pseudo-labels for field delineation across label-scarce smallholder regions
   > improvements in nearly all experiments (mIoU increases of up to 0.060, mRMSE decreases of up to 0.034 ha). Moreover, we found iii) substantial performance increases … 77 % of the mIoU increases and 68 % of the mRMSE decreases obtained by human-annotated labels), and iv) additional performance increases (mIoU+0.008, mRMSE: −0.003
02539|Pest Detection Using Image Denoising and Cascaded Unet Segmentation for Pest Images
   > through an adaptive UNET architecture for image segmentation, which is based on domain adaptation and semantic segmentation. The cascaded UNET segmentation improves the segmentation accuracy, and the domain adaptation ensures that the model can be applied to new datasets without
02540|Continuous Wavelet Analysis of Leaf Reflectance Improves Classification Accuracy of Mangrove Species
   > Due to continuous degradation of mangrove forests, the accurate monitoring of spatial distribution and species composition … marina, Bruguiera gymnorrhiza, Kandelia obovate and Aegiceras corniculatum) were collected across six different regions. The smoothed reflectance (Smth) and first derivative reflectance (Der) spectra were
02541|Physics-informed deep learning for robust maize leaf area index estimation using multi-source data
   > rely on common machine learning models, which often suffer from poor spatiotemporal generalization. To address these issues, this study proposes PhysLAINet, a physics-informed model for … abnormal crop growth. Experimental results show that PhysLAINet achieves strong accuracy and generalization performance. It achieves favorable performance on the 2025 dataset (R 2 = 0.8866, RMSE = 0.6147, rRMSE =
02542|Graph LRP and Domain Adversarial Neural Networks: An Approach to evaluate the performance and Design an Iterative method for Lumpy skin disease predic
   > prediction of this disease often fall short of expectations in explain ability, cross-domain adaptability, and real-time responsiveness for effective intervention. The authors mentioned the limitations … decision process. Graph LRP assigns a relevance score for input features. DANN generalizes it better and reduces labeled data requirements. Afterwards, to ensure adaptability in
02543|Cross-species transcriptomics and machine learning identifies conserved obesity associated genes in osteoarthritic joint tissues
   > [no abstract]
02544|Trust to repurchase: investigating consumer behaviour with SOR theory and dual-stage SEM-ANN analysis
   > consumer decision-making. Research limitations/implications The study is limited to Guizhou Province, affecting generalisability. Future research should explore other regions and additional consumer behaviour factors. Practical implications Businesses should enhance product
02545|Swin Transformer–Graph Neural Network (Swin–GNNet) for Land Use Land cover classification: a fuzzy hybrid approach
   > [no abstract]
02546|Determination of the appropriate zone on dam surface for floating photovoltaic system installation using RS and GISc technologies
   > extraction is a crucial process for the FPV-SPP to stay afloat despite external constraints. In this study, changes in dam water levels were determined by … installed in this region compared to the systems to be installed in other regions. It has been observed that the radiation values in other parts
02547|AI-Based Crop Recommendation System Using Weather and Soil Data
   > general knowledge, ignoring the unique soil conditions and climatic factors present in different locations. Such decisions, which have not been based on science, end up reducing the yield, resource wastage, and degradation of soil quality. This paper discusses the design and methodology for the
02548|Impacts of Land use Land cover dynamics on Ecosystem services in maze national park and its environs, southwestern Ethiopia
   > while riverine forests, water bodies, and wooded grasslands declined. The overall ESVs decreased by 20 %, from 2038.42 million USD in 1985 to 1628.72 million … by local residents, but they are declining over time due to environmental degradation and restrictions on access to the park. Thus, understanding LULC changes and
02549|Deep Learning–Based Corn Yield Component Estimation Under Different Nitrogen and Irrigation Rates
   > of determination (R2pred) of 0.858 for the test set and 0.890 for cross-year datasets. The YOLOv8x model ranked second, whereas YOLOv10x was the worst-performing model.
02550|Cross-City Evaluation of Multi-Sensor SAR–Optical Fusion Strategies for Agricultural Land Cover Classification Using Deep Learning
   > Accurate and transferable land cover mapping from satellite imagery is a prerequisite for national-scale agrienvironmental … and spectral information, yet systematic evaluation of fusion strategies and their geographic transferability remains limited. We trained and tested five U-Net fusion architectures S1-only, S2-only,
02551|Captive environments reshape the compositions of carbohydrate active enzymes and virulence factors in wolf gut microbiome
   > fox) in the Hulun Lake area, captive wolves, and domestic dogs in different regions using metagenomic data. A random forest analysis revealed significant enrichment for
02552|A Compact Deep Learning Framework for Potato Leaf Disease Classification Across Controlled/Uncontrolled Environments
   > and principled feature selection for robust potato leaf disease detection under diverse real-world conditions.
02553|Machine learning-assisted single-cell Raman imaging for rapid, sensitive detection and intracellular mapping of carotenoids in plant cell cultures
   > [no term] Abstract Key message CRaman imaging combined with a multi-layer perceptron neural network enables non-destructive, label-freeclassifi cation of tobacco BY-2 cells based on carotenoid composition. Abstract Carotenoids are natural tetraterpenoid pigments
02554|Invariant Features for Global Crop Type Classification
   > regions. A key challenge is enabling models trained in one geography to generalize reliably to others despite shifts in climate, phenology, and spectral characteristics. In … its simplicity, CropNet consistently outperforms larger transformer-based and foundation-model approaches under geographic domain shift. To further improve robustness to geographic variation, we introduce augmentations that
02555|MACHINE LEARNING CLASSIFIER FOR DALIUM GUINEENSE FRUIT USING ITS PHYSICAL PROPERTIES
   > [no term] Dalium guineense (DG) is a wild fruit with a brittle epicarp that may be broken accidentally or intentionally while processing during any of the unit operations thereby creating a binomial
02556|Classification of Medicinal Wild Plant Leaf Types Using a Combination of ELM and PCA Algorithms
   > [no term] Despite their detrimental nature, it turns out that wild plants have many benefits for human health. Wild plants with a form of herbaceous vegetation contain ingredients that can be used
02557|Plant Disease Detection Using CNN and GAN
   > samples, thereby addressing class imbalance and limited training data. The system is trained on a dataset containing more than 55,000 leaf images across 32 classes … nutrient analysis. Experimental results demonstrate improved classification performance, robustness, and scalability under real-world conditions. Additionally, the multilingual user interface enhances accessibility for farmers from di
02558|Comparison of Foundation and Supervised Learning-Based Models for Detection of Referable Glaucoma from Fundus Photographs
   > (cup-to-disc ratio ≥ 0.6) by certified optometrists. Four deep learning models were trained on cropped and uncropped images (Training N = 8,996; Validation N = … held-out test set (N = 1,000) labeled by glaucoma specialists and an external test set (N = 300) from University of Southern California clinics. Performance
02559|Investigation of the Impact of Soil Physicochemical Properties and Microbial Communities on the Successful Cultivation of Morchella in Greenhouses
   > could develop into fruiting bodies. The morel mycelium in NM effectively utilized external nutrient bags, enhancing the soil nitrogen and organic matter content while reducing … greenhouse temperatures may have promoted pathogen proliferation, hindering the effective utilization of external nutrient bags by morel mycelium. Consequently, the mycelium was unable to accumulate
02560|SLIF-Tomato: Inverted Residual Convolutional Block Attention Module for In-field Tomato Leaf Disease Recognition
   > in-field dataset comprising class labels and bounding box annotations collected under diverse real-world conditions. The proposed approach achieved 99.66% and 99.91% accuracy rates on two
02561|A Localization-Aware Heterogeneous CNN Ensemble with Neural Meta- Fusion for Plant Disease Classification, with a Component Analysis on Laboratory and
   > [no abstract]
02562|Optimizing Annual Crop Yield Predictions in Drought Impacted Regions
   > [no abstract]
02563|Neuronless Knowledge Processing in Forests
   > optimizing its overall access to light resources, represented by canopy tree coverage, independently. This was analyzed in 323 forests in different locations across the US where forest resection is performed by trails. Our
02564|Crop multiclass classification for large-scale crop mapping using instance- and feature-domain integrated transfer learning
   > Crop Multiclass Sampling Optimization Transfer Adaboost (CMSTA) method, which utilized a geoscience-informed instance-feature-domain adaptation approach to combine large-scale crop features with fine-scale phenological features. First, we used time-series Sentinel-1/2 imagery to identify high-quality simulated samples within the target domain through a combination of crop characteristics and spati
02565|Deep Learning with Multi-Modal Feature Fusion for Spectral Detection of Soluble Solids Content and Ph in Grapes and Cherry Tomatoes
   > [no abstract]
02566|MPIDNN-GPPI: multi-protein language model with an improved deep neural network for generalized protein‒protein interaction prediction
   > deep learning methods, can efficiently learn representations from protein sequences. However, the generalizability, robustness, and stability of computational PPI prediction models still need improvement, especially … study, we propose a novel protein sequence-based PPI prediction framework designed for generalized PPI assessment by integrating two protein language models (PLMs) and an enhanced
02567|Ecosystem vigilance: leveraging NDVI analysis and Deep Learning for sustainable plant health management in Ziarat and Sherani districts, Balochistan, 
   > [no term] In the Baluchistan province of Pakistan, Ziarat and Sherani districts hold significant economic potential for plant cultivation, yet they face severe environmental challenges, including illegal tree cutting, forest fires, and
02568|Deep Learning-Based Potato Leaf Disease Detection Using Transfer Learning and Explainable AI Techniques
   > classification performance among all evaluated models. To enhance model’s performance and improve generalization to unseen data, several techniques were implemented, including data augmentation, Batch Normalization, Dropout regularization, … high accuracy of the proposed model. An ablation study found that accuracy dropped to 84.67% without fine-tuning, which demonstrates how critical it is for th
02569|Cross-session generalization in automated behavioral tracking of Galleria mellonella larvae: comparison of classical computer vision, deep learning an
   > biomedical research; however, robustness across heterogeneous imaging conditions remains a major challenge. Domain shifts caused by changes in illumination, contrast, or acquisition setup can substantially degrade the performance of computer vision and deep learning models, limiting their practical … vision (CV) pipeline, a YOLOv8s-seg + ByteTrack deep learning pipeline, and generative domain adap
02570|Integrated Metabolomics and Machine Learning Reveal Drying‐Dependent Phenolic Markers in Asteraceae Edible Plants From Ulleungdo Island
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Ulleungdo Island, Korea, features a distinctive oceanic climate that supports a diverse array of edible wild plants traditionally processed through blanching and sun‐drying. Despite their cultural and commercial significance,
02571|Ultra-wide-field fundus photography and AI-based screening and referral for multiple ocular fundus diseases
   > three deep learning algorithms (DLAs) based on different algorithms (Swin Transformer and cross-domain collaborative learning [CdCL]) and imaging modalities (ultra-wide-field [UWF] images and the cropped … + PPR images). 59,475 UWF images are included to establish internal and external datasets. WARM shows the best performance on the internal test (area under
02572|AI-Based Plant Identification
   > aims to design a lightweight and privacy-preserving model that performs effectively in real-world conditions such as low light, background clutter, and partial occlusion.A dataset of … on smartphones.The system achieved 94.3% top-1 and 98.7% top-5 accuracy, showing strong generalization across diverse environments.Techniques such as data augmentation, attention, and metric learning enhanced
02573|IOT-Based Crop Recommendation System With Intrusion Detection
   > [no term] Agriculture remains the major occupation and source of livelihood for a large section of the population worldwide, especially in developing countries like India.However the sector faces challenges related to weather
02574|Facilitation of microglial motility by thyroid hormones requires the presence of neurons in cell culture: A distinctive feature of the brainstem versu
   > with or without neurons. These data suggest that the microglial function in different regions of the brain is determined by the surrounding environment.
02575|Synthetic microbial sensing and biosynthesis of amaryllidaceae alkaloids
   > [no term] Abstract A major challenge to achieving industry-scale biomanufacturing of therapeutic alkaloids is the slow process of biocatalyst engineering. Amaryllidaceae alkaloids, such as the Alzheimer’s medication galantamine, are complex plant secondary
02576|Hybrid Spatio-temporal Deep Learning Framework for Early Prediction of Arecanut Fruit Rot Disease
   > [no abstract]
02577|A Framework for Accurate Annual Regional Crop Yield Prediction
   > classification and LSTM can be applied to multiple crop types and in different regions using opensource datasets, historical yields, spectral indices and meteorological data. Correlations
02578|A dual-stage system for real-time license plate detection and recognition on mobile security robots
   > [no term] Abstract Automatic license plate recognition (ALPR) systems are increasingly used to solve issues related to surveillance and security. However, these systems assume constrained recognition scenarios, thereby restricting their practical use.
02579|A cost-aware comparative study of deep learning models for industrial tomato quality grading
   > problem, the curated benchmark design, and the cost-aware comparative analysis. To assess generalizability, all models were additionally evaluated on a second independent dataset, FGrade, through a controlled cross-dataset protocol. On the primary dataset, the Swin Transformer achieved the highest accuracy
02580|AI-Based Optimisation Techniques for Agrivoltaic Systems: Benefits, Challenges, and the Way Forward
   > dynamic, real-time optimisation remains limited. Key research gaps include the absence of cross-domain learning architectures, the limited integration of economic considerations within optimisation frameworks, and
02581|Predicting the Next Permit Violation: An Explainable Machine Learning Early-Warning System for Wastewater Treatment Plant Compliance
   > [no abstract]
02582|Advancing the central role of non-model biorepositories in predictive modeling of emerging pathogens
   > increasing computational complexity and processing time.Worse, it can produce overfit models that generalize poorly on new data and, in extreme cases, may increase false signal … non-model organisms; therefore, understanding the ecology and evolution of those host species in the wild will be key to identifying features most informative for disease
02583|Predicting polysaccharide content in Dendrobium officinale using machine learning models: Revealing shifts in high-quality production areas under faci
   > [no term] Dendrobium officinale is a traditional and precious medicinal herb with both pharmaceutical and edible value, whose quality directly affects its efficacy. With the increasing scarcity of wild resources, greenhouse cultivation
02584|CoDA: A Cognitive-Inspired Approach for Domain Adaptation
   > achieved remarkable success in visual recognition; however, due to their sensitivity to domain shifts, Unsupervised Domain Adaptation (UDA) remains an open research problem. A key reason for this … real-world target datasets (VegFru, Fruits-262, and Open Images v7) demonstrate that CoDA, trained on a source dataset of just 12,000 synthetic images, achieves comparable results
02585|Deep Learning-Based Fruit Tree Pest and Disease Recognition Technology: Model Evolution, Challenges, and Edge Intelligence Deployment
   > and limitations of representative methods from the perspectives of data complexity, model generalization and robustness, real-time inference, cross-modal fusion, and trustworthy diagnosis. Existing studies indicate … detection, lesion segmentation, and edge deployment; however, sample scarcity, class imbalance, insufficient cross-domain generalization, black-box decision-making, energy constraints
02586|Freshwater Aquaculture Mapping in “Home of Chinese Crawfish” by Using a Hierarchical Classification Framework and Sentinel-1/2 Data
   > provides a new approach to monitoring inland freshwater aquaculture in China and other regions of the world.
02587|A layered domain adaptation method for wheat head detection via state–space hybridization and channel-guided cross-scale fusion
   > [no abstract]
02588|Leakage-Proof Reliability-Aware Deep Learning Framework for Rice Leaf Disease Diagnosis
   > Expected Calibration Error and temperature scaling methods, selective prediction using risk-coverage analysis, external-dataset validation, and computational efficiency profiling. The in-domain evaluation resulted in an almost … cross-validation method applied to the folds evaluated showed high values, while the external UCI rice leaf dataset presented significantly lower values, with an accuracy 
02589|Artificial Intelligence in Plant Microbiome based Disease Prediction: A Review
   > “black box” nature of DL models and the near complete absence of cross-site field validation. We propose a phased translational roadmap emphasising long read sequencing, … causal inference, standardised validation protocols and ethical data governance to overcome these generalisation failures. With sustained interdisciplinary investment and equitable technology transfer, AI-microbiome integration 
02590|Development of a robust deep learning model for weed classification across diverse bermudagrass turfgrass regimes in China and the United States
   > in species, ecotypes, densities, and growth stages in bermudagrass turfgrass systems across different regions in both China and the United States. Among the models tested,
02591|Deep learning based detection of wild bee parasites under natural conditions
   > followed an opportunistic data collection approach and sampled images of parasites present in the wild in Germany. We investigate the feasibility of using deep learning
02592|CrossDomain-VisionBench: Benchmarking Data-Efficient Cross-Domain Visual Transfer
   > such models are deployed in specialized real-world environments, they frequently encounter significant distribution shifts that severely degrade performance. This issue is compounded by the scarcity of annotated data in specialized target domains, a challenge known as data-efficient cross-domain visual transfer. Existing benchmarks typically focus either on domain adaptation with abundant unlabele
02593|Metadata-guided Consistency Learning for High Content Images
   > techniques underperform on high content imaging assays. One challenge is the undesirable domain shifts present in the data known as batch effects, which are caused by biological noise or uncontrolled experimental conditions. To this end, we introduce Cross-Domain Consistency Learning (CDCL), a self-supervised approach that is able to learn in
02594|AI-Driven Ultrasound System for Wildlife Detection and Sustainable Crop Protection
   > [no term] Abstract: The intrusion of wild animals into agricultural areas significantly threatens crop productivity and farmer safety. Conventional deterrent techniques frequently prove inefficient, require excessive manual effort, or risk harming wildlife
02595|Distinctive hospital and community resistomes in Scottish urban wastewater: Metagenomics of a paired wastewater sampling design
   > mixed municipal wastewater to investigate how and why the composition of these different sites differ. We conducted shotgun metagenomic analysis on wastewater samples from eight
02596|Reliable Malware Analysis and Detection using Topology Data Analysis
   > polymorphic, metamorphic, persistent, able to hide to bypass detectors and adapt to new environments, and even leverage machine learning techniques to better damage targets. Thus,
02597|Intelligent Fruit-Picking Robot Using Convolutional Vision and Kinematic Control for Automated Harvesting
   > to fruits located at varying canopy heights. A deep learning-based recognition module, trained on a Mixed Fruit Dataset, is employed to detect and classify fruits … orchards. Future work will address enhancements in real-time processing, autonomous navigation, and cross-species generalization to advance fully autonomous orchard operations.
02598|Cross-Dataset Generalization of Bangladeshi Rice Leaf Disease Classifiers: Benchmark, Diagnosis, and Mitigation
   > Cross-dataset transfer in rice leaf disease classification remains a significant challenge, with models trained on one image collection performing substantially worse when deployed on another. We conduct a systematic benchmark across three Bangladeshi rice leaf disease datasets … seeds) to characterize and diagnose this failure. Strong augmentation recovers a mean cross-dataset macro-F1 improvemen
02599|A multimodal geospatial foundation model anticipates crop stress and yield failure across climates and species
   > Discussion: Because the study is based on retrospective datasets, these findings establish cross-region retrospective performance rather than prospective field efficacy. The results support further field-based
02600|Effect of multiple climate change scenarios and predicted land-cover on soil erosion: a way forward for the better land management
   > [no abstract]
02601|Depletion of astrocytic transglutaminase 2 improves injury outcomes
   > [no term] &NA; Astrocytes play an indispensable role in maintaining a healthy, functional neural network in the central nervous system (CNS). A primary function of CNS astrocytes is to support the survival
02602|AgriPath: A Systematic Exploration of Architectural Trade-offs for Crop Disease Classification
   > profiles: CNNs achieve the highest accuracy on in-domain imagery but exhibit pronounced degradation under domain shift; contrastive VLMs provide a robust and parameter-efficient alternative with competitive cross-domain performance; generative VLMs demonstrate the strongest resilience to distributional variation, albeit with
02603|High resolution kinematic approach for quantifying impaired mobility of dystrophic zebrafish larvae
   > [no term] Abstract Dystrophin-deficient zebrafish larvae are a small, genetically tractable vertebrate model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy well suited for early stage therapeutic development. However, current approaches for evaluating their impaired mobility,
02604|Non-Destructive Identification of Wild and Cultivated Ginseng Under Forest Canopies Using Random Forest
   > [no abstract]
02605|Prototype-based explainable deep learning for sex classification of Mountain Gazelles in the wild
   > [no term] Abstract Wildlife preserves are critical for countering the decline of biodiversity, yet monitoring species distribution and demographics via direct observation is time-consuming and prone to observer disturbance. Deep learning has
02606|Near-Infrared and Low-Rank Adaptation of Vision Transformers in Remote Sensing
   > poses a significant challenge for training deep neural networks. Typically, large networks pre-trained on the RGB domain are utilized to fine-tune infrared images. This practice introduces a domain shift issue because of the differing visual traits between RGB and NIR … adaptation strategies for remote sensing images focus on RGB images and overlook domain shift issues in the NIR domain. Therefore
02607|Unsupervised Domain Adaptation Approaches for Chessboard Recognition
   > automating this record-keeping process. This paper proposes an end-to-end pipeline that employs domain adaptation (DA) to predict the labels of real, top-view, unlabeled chessboard images … the position. The three approaches considered are the following: A VGG16 model pre-trained on ImageNet, defined here as the Base-Source model, fine-tuned to predict source domain squares and then used to predic
02608|Democratizing Precision Agriculture - Smartphone-Based Diagnostics for Smallholder Farmers
   > required. The application is built around a MobileNetV2 Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) trained on the PlantVillage dataset (38 disease classes across 14 crop types) using … size under 50 MB. A multilingual interface ensures accessibility for farmers across different regions. This work was conducted at Arab International University (AIU), Syria. The
02609|Computational identification of variables in neonatal vocalizations predictive for postpubertal social behaviors in a mouse model of 16p11.2 deletion
   > [no term] Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is often signaled by atypical cries during infancy. Copy number variants (CNVs) provide genetically identifiable cases of ASD, but how early atypical cries predict a later
02610|Dynamical Modeling of the Core Gene Network Controlling Transition to Flowering in Pisum sativum
   > previously published experimental data on the dynamic expression of the main genes in the wild type and in three mutant genotypes. Based on modeling results,
02611|YieldSAT: A Multimodal Benchmark Dataset for High-Resolution Crop Yield Prediction
   > and data fusion architectures. Furthermore, we highlight open challenges arising from severe distribution shifts in the ground truth data under real-world conditions. To mitigate this, we explore a domain-informed Deep Ensemble approach that
02612|Assessing robustness and transferability of image‐based semantic segmentation models for major field crops
   > learning, offers a pathway to overcome these limitations. However, achieving robustness and generalization when analyzing diverse genotypes within a crop and across reproductive stages remains … performance by genotype and collection date, and (iii) the temporal and genotypic transferability across growth stages and unseen genotypes. Four distinct smartphone cameras were used to collect images of 
02613|generalized and finely tunable rainfall prediction based on optimized forecasting model
   > terms of daily precipitation characteristics, this various model is applied to 12 different sites under various climatic reinforcements.
02614|Linking drought indices to impacts to support drought risk assessment in Liaoning province, China
   > due to its history of drought occurrence. To achieve this we use independent, but complementary, methods (correlation and random forest analysis). Using multiple drought indices … planning efforts in the region, and provides a methodology for application for other regions of China (and other countries) in the future, as well as
02615|Measuring the Performance of Supervised Machine Learning Algorithms for Optimizing Wheat Productivity Prediction Models: A Comparative Study
   > [no term] The issue of precise crop prediction gained worldwide attention in the midst of food security concerns. In this study, the efficacies of different machine learning (ML) algorithms, i.e., multiple linear
02616|SwissCrop25: A National Multi-Year Benchmark for Operational Crop Mapping
   > Operational crop mapping requires models that generalise across years, resolve fine-grained crop taxonomies, and distinguish cropland from surrounding landscapes. … non-crop land cover classes. To evaluate realistic deployment conditions, we define a leave-one-year-out protocol with joint cropland delineation and crop classification for benchmarking representative crop
02617|Sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum) Productivity Estimation Using Multispectral Sensors in RPAs, Biometric Variables, and Vegetation Indices
   > of this study was to estimate the productivity of sugarcane cultivars in different regions, using multispectral sensors embedded in RPAs and biometric variables sampled in … and 20.2; RPIQ = 3.22 and 2.61) for the validations K-fold and Leave-one-out cross-validation (LOOCV). The correlations between biometric variables, spectral bands, and vegetation indices
02618|Domain-Adversarial Training of Self-Attention-Based Networks for Land Cover Classification Using Multi-Temporal Sentinel-2 Satellite Imagery
   > between distinct geographical zones. In particular, we perform a thorough analysis of domain adaptation applied to challenging multi-spectral, multi-temporal data, accurately highlighting the advantages of … where labeled data are not available. Extensive experimentation demonstrated significant performance and generalization gain in applying domain-adversarial training to source and target region
02619|Toward deployment-ready Deep Learning for energy-efficient power plants: A critical survey of forecasting, control, and operational gaps
   > [no abstract]
02620|i6mA-VC: A Multi-Classifier Voting Method for the Computational Identification of DNA N6-methyladenine Sites
   > [no abstract]
02621|Depth to sodicity constraint mapping of the Murray-Darling Basin, Australia
   > it faces a multitude of challenges, including climate change, drought, and soil degradation. The occurrence of excess sodium ions in the soil, referred to as ‘sodicity’, is a form of soil degradation which is also a significant constraint to production. Maps of sodicity exist … a reduction of 20 to 9 covariates for modelling. Following model tuning, independent testing showed the 3D model was of a
02622|Predicting Poverty Level From Satellite Imagery Using Ensemble Learning
   > allocate resources, it is essential to ascertain the levels of poverty in different regions of the world. However, it is difficult to find accurate information
02623|Dogs on forest trails; Understanding ecology of Striped Hyena and wild Canids in the presence of free-ranging dogs in Udanti-Sitanadi Tiger Reserve, C
   > [no term] This study uses Joint Species Distribution Models (JSDMs) and Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) to explore how wild carnivores and free-ranging dogs interact in the Udanti-Sitanadi Tiger Reserve (USTR) in Central
02624|Design of an Apple Harvesting Robot Based on Hybrid Pneumatic-Electric Drive System
   > [no term] This paper presents the design of a high-efficiency apple harvesting robot based on a hybrid pneumatic-electric drive system, capable of operating around the clock. The robotic system comprises a mobile
02625|A Modelling and Evaluation Framework for EuroCrops-Driven Sentinel-2 Crop Segmentation
   > U-Net showed the importance of learned multi-scale spatial representations for crop segmentation. External evaluation was performed on unseen Belgian EuroCrops subsets, DACIA5, and PASTIS. The results show a clear performance gap under external and cross-dataset evaluation, especially for benchmarks with different taxonomies, annotation protocols, spatial coverage, or … the limitations of using Eu
02626|Remote sensing observation of annual dust cycles and possible causality of Kawasaki disease outbreaks in Japan
   > using AERONET data reveals possible particle transport association with KD events at different locations. Thus, understanding transport mechanisms and accurate identification of aerosol sources is
02627|Genotype-Phenotype Integration through Machine Learning and Personalised Gene Regulatory Networks for Cancer Metastasis Prediction
   > were selected using the Kruskal-Wallis test. ElasticNet, Random Forest, and XGBoost were trained on top-ranked genes. The personalised networks were generated with PANDA and LIONESS, … graph-level statistics indicated limited intrinsic separability, and both approaches were robust to data partitioning. Conclusion and Significance Expression-based ML shows potential as a cost-efficient approach
02628|Machine Learning Predicts Functional Decline and Risk Phenotypes in Older Patients With Heart Failure
   > HF registry). Patients aged ≥65 years, hospitalized for HF, prescribed rehabilitation, and independent preadmission (Barthel Index [BI] ≥85) were included. An eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) … based on a national long-term care scale. Performance was evaluated via nested leave-one-site-out validation and benchmarked against the Kihon Checklist (KCL) frailty screening tool. RESULTS:
02629|From Morphology To Machine Learning And Genomics: Understanding Phenotypic Variation In Wild Ducks
   > [no term] Understanding the genetic underpinning and distribution of phenotypic variation within and between divergent groups is core towards shedding light into how populations diverge and adapt, as well as how hybridization
02630|The Human SCN9AR185H Point Mutation Induces Pain Hypersensitivity and Spontaneous Pain in Mice
   > [no term] The voltage-gated sodium channel Nav1.7 is encoded by SCN9A gene and plays a critical role in pain sensitivity. Several SCN9A gain-of-function (GOF) mutations have been found in patients with small
02631|Automated phenotyping of rodent behavior in the Novel Cylinder Test using machine learning
   > [no abstract]
02632|Precision Farming in Contemporary Agriculture: A Critical Review of Recent Advances, Agricultural Value, and Implementation Gaps
   > itself produce better decisions. Machine-learning studies frequently report strong predictive performance, yet transferability is constrained by sparse labels, class imbalance, domain shift, inconsistent evaluation procedures, and limited independent field testing. Environmental evidence is strongest where precision technologies directly alter an
02633|Neuroscience-Inspired Plant Electrophysiology: From Signal Decoding to Plant-Computer Interfaces
   > active sensory node to directly drive closed-loop regulation within agricultural environments. Establishing cross-species standardized open-source datasets and unified hardware/software testing benchmarks will be the core
02634|Environmental Metadata Fusion Improves Within-Distribution Plant Disease Classification Under Image Degradation and Reveals Potential OOD Metadata Ris
   > [no abstract]
02635|Applications of Artificial Intelligence in Soil Characterization and Agriculture: A Systematic Review of Techniques, Models, and Applications
   > soil health monitoring. However, challenges remain regarding data quality and availability, model transferability across regions, and the limited interpretability of complex models. The findings highlight
02636|Cross-Layer based Energy Efficient Wireless Sensor Network for Large Farms
   > [no term] : In recent years, researchers have focused their efforts on improving agricultural production by automating farming applications using wireless sensor networks (WSNs). The agricultural information must be accurate and updated
02637|Enhanced Identification of Key Bacterial Motility Genes via a Cross-Species Genomic Hybrid Feature Machine Learning Approach
   > efficiency. Previously, we established a novel method for identifying key genes using cross-species protein domain features and machine learning. However, the high multiplicity of gene
02638|SOLAR PHOTOVOLTAIC POWER OUTPUT PREDICTION WITH MACHINE LEARNING TECHNIQUES: CASE STUDY OF RWAMAGANA SOLAR POWER PLANT- RWANDA
   > energy from solar PV power plants which result to load shedding in different regions of the country. To attain a sustainable solution to this problem;
02639|Spatiotemporal Prediction and Mapping of Heavy Metals at Regional Scale Using Regression Methods and Landsat 7
   > the lowlands, were generally high, compared to their RF spatiotemporal predictions, which decreased over time. Increasing moisture contents in the floodplains adjacent to the river … The spatiotemporal prediction maps produced for the heavy metals for the four different years revealed a good spatial similarity and consistency with the measured maps
02640|Unified Learning Frameworks Enhancing Visual Disease Diagnosis across Agriculture and Healthcare Domains
   > one domain (e.g., plant‐disease leaf imagery) to be adapted or extended to another (e.g., medical imaging), thereby promoting cross-domain generalisability, resource efficiency, and scalability. The investigation encompasses literature on agriculture (leaf disease … environments, and enable deployment on edge/embedded systems. We also discuss challenges—such as domain shift, interpretability gaps,
02641|EXPERIMENTAL STUDY ON NAVIGATION FOR WHEAT SEEDLING ROOT CUTTING BASED ON DEEP LEARNING
   > collected from 2019 to 2022. Comparative tests were conducted from four aspects: different years, different time periods, different environments, and different yaw angles. The results
02642|Synergetic inversion of leaf chlorophyll content and leaf area index from Sentinel-2 data using artificial neural networks trained with a radiative tr
   > [no term] Leaf area index (LAI) and leaf chlorophyll content (LCC) are two key vegetation traits affecting vegetation growth and function. They have often been retrieved individually from multi-spectral remote sensing data
02643|Improvement of Distance Protection with SVM on PV-Fed Transmission Lines in Infeed Conditions
   > was up to 95.6% in this study. The simulation was performed at different locations along the transmission line with different types of fault on a
02644|SATARK: Predictive Pre-emption of Agricultural Stubble Burning via Cascaded Vision Transformer NDVI Phenology, Multi-Constellation Fire Radiometry, an
   > [no abstract]
02645|A Deep Learning and YOLO-Based Hybrid Framework for Accurate Classification and Region-of-Interest Detection of Maize Leaf Diseases
   > [no term] Maize leaf diseases are also major causes of loss in the productivity of the crop, and they are also visually similar to each other, which frequently causes a misclassification under
02646|Intelligent adaptive learning and control for discrete-time nonlinear uncertain systems in multiple environments
   > [no abstract]
02647|Study of Genetic Variation in Bermuda Grass along Longitudinal and Latitudinal Gradients Using Spectral Reflectance
   > was observed between genetic groups from the northern regions and those from other regions along the latitudinal gradient, which indicated the usefulness of spectral signatures
02648|Robust Estimation of Wild Blueberry Yield via Triple Integrated Machine Learning Techniques
   > [no abstract]
02649|A multiscale and seasonal model for urban surface temperature prediction based on landscape, land use and spectral indices
   > [no abstract]
02650|Computational Phenotyping of Autism-Related Behaviors: A Cross-Cultural Machine Learning Study in Bangladesh
   > ASD diagnosis using behavioral videos, but critical questions remain regarding whether models trained on data from one country work in another, and how the background of the raters affects the accuracy. Our work … in a cohort of 227 children in Bangladesh. We first assessed the cross-domain model transferability of a clinical-instrument-trained logistic regression model (LR-9) on behavioral rating
02651|Predicting agricultural waste generation in the U.S.: A Data-Driven guide for smarter resource use
   > spatial patterns: high-residue counties are concentrated in the Midwest corn belt, while other regions display mixed or lower-output profiles. Corn was the primary contributor to
02652|A Scalable AI Approach to Bird Species Identification for Conservation and Ecological Planning
   > [no term] Birds represent an important component of ecosystems, holding substantial ecological and human interest, and significantly contributing to ecological equilibrium via their roles as pollinators, seed dispensers, and predators. If identified
02653|Assessment of spatial justice and accessibility of digital services for the population and business based on geoinformation analysis and machine learn
   > receivable (11.56 versus 4.76). Forecasting the risk of regular digital restrictions with spatial cross-validation demonstrates the practical suitability of the models for risk-oriented prioritization of
02654|Long-term monitoring of mammal communities in the Peneda-Gerês National Park using camera-trap data
   > are still common in the area, the intensity of these activities has decreased significantly, promoting natural succession and an increase or return of several large
02655|Machine-learning framework revealed retrotransposon-driven structural variant signatures of soybean domestication
   > [no term] Machine-learning framework revealed retrotransposon-driven structural variant signatures of soybean domestication VCF File PanGenome_SV_callset.vcf.gz (bgzip-compressed, tabix-indexed .tbi provided) Summary VCF version: 4.2 Reference assembly: Williams 82 Wm82.a6.v1 (GCA_000004515.5) Species: Glycine max
02656|Real-time unstructured road detection based on CNN and Gibbs energy function
   > is estimated based on the improved random sample consensus (RANSAC) algorithm for different regions in the image, and the features of H are automatically extracted
02657|Machine Learning Reveals the Driving Effects of Soil Nutrients on Maize Yield Formation: A Case Study of Yunnan, China
   > and Discussions]PSO-XGBoost showed the best performance among the tested models. Under random data partitioning, the model achieved an R2 of 0.91, indicating that it could … yield prediction in complex mountainous regions. Under spatial block cross-validation, the R2 decreased to 0.847. Although this value was lower than that obtained from random
02658|Non-Destructive Identification of Wild and Cultivated Ginseng Under Forest Canopies Using Random Forest Model
   > [no abstract]
02659|Machine Learning–Based Preoperative Predicting TERT Promoter Mutation and EGFR Gene Amplification Phenotype in IDH Wild-Type Glioblastoma Using Advanc
   > data were divided into the training set (n=112), test set (n=29), and time-independent validation set (n=38). Based on the ADC and CBV map, the solid … The reliability of prediction models was validated in the test and the time-independent validation sets. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis, calibration curve, and decision
02660|Observing the phenological characteristics of winter food crops with spectral indices
   > [no term] Abstract. This study is based on the best crop classification result generated by the proposed unsupervised Machine Learning (ML) method in Li et al., 2025a, using the spectral indices calculated
02661|Application of Vis/NIR Spectroscopy in the Rapid and Non-Destructive Prediction of Soluble Solid Content in Milk Jujubes
   > sample elimination (DAUASE) strategy was proposed to enhance the data validity. Multiple data partitioning strategies were evaluated, including random selection (RS), Kennard–Stone (KS), and SPXY … achieved the best preservation of the original data distribution, improving the model generalization. Several spectral preprocessing and feature selection methods were used to enhance the
02662|Detection of Red Crown Rot of Soybean in Illinois Fields Using High-Resolution Satellite Imagery and Machine Learning
   > representing linear, tree-based, neural-network, kernel, and probabilistic approaches were compared using spatially independent leave-one-field-out cross-validation. RCR-affected canopies exhibited increased reflectance in the visible and red-edge regions, … of high-resolution satellite imagery for within-field mapping of RCR-associated canopy symptoms across independent commercial soybean fields.
02663|Use of artificial neural network for generation of ultra-high resolution meteorological fields over Chowkibal-Tangdhar region of North-West Himalaya
   > generated by the WRF model using observed surface weather data of five different locations in Chowkibal-Tangdhar (C-T) region. Post-processed WRF output has been spatially interpolated
02664|Development of a Predictive Model for Wild Blueberry Fruit Losses Using Bio-systems
   > the best for this study. The developed models were validated internally and externally and the best performing model was identified based on mean square error,
02665|Harvest date estimation over corn and sunflower fields using Sentinel-1 and RADARSAT constellation mission data and machine learning algorithms
   > impacts of polarization diversity and temporal resolution on estimation accuracy. Additionally, the transferability of trained ML models was explored by applying them to a region … the three ML algorithms in the training region; however, RF demonstrated better transferability to the unseen region. For Sentinel-1 data, VV and VH backscatter provided similar accuracy to
02666|Breeding vegetables for whitefly resistance: past, present, and future in the AI era
   > [no term] Whiteflies, particularly Bemisia tabaci—a rapidly evolving cryptic species complex comprising more than 40 biotypes including the invasive MEAM1 and MED—and Trialeurodes vaporariorum, remain among the most destructive pests of global
02667|Prediction of environmental indicators in land leveling using artificial intelligence techniques
   > investigated. The study was consisted of 90 samples were collected from 3 different regions. The grid size was set 20 m in 20 m (20
02668|Deep Learning Architectures for Fruit and Leaf Disease Detection: A Critical Analysis of Methods, Metrics, Challenges, and Future Research Directions
   > [no abstract]
02669|Feature-optimized hybrid CNN–ViT architecture for sustainable vision-based condition assessment in agriculture
   > to capturing global associations. The complementary feature spaces are combined through a cross-domain fusion layer to improve representation capability. The proposed system achieves high classification
02670|Spectroscopic sensor-based machine learning framework for in situ evaluation of fruit internal quality
   > multimodal learning. Literature across 2000–2026 was prioritized when studies reported whole-fruit sensing, external validation, and operationally relevant performance metrics. To make cross-study interpretation more rigorous, … transfer, cultivar effects, ambient variability, model compression, uncertainty control, data leakage, and domain shift as decisive translational issues. By integrating se
02671|Improved Surface Solar Irradiation Estimation Using Satellite Data and Feature Engineering
   > power plants. Achieving this requires accurate, reliable information on solar irradiation across different regions. However, ground-based measurements using pyranometers are resource-intensive, requiring substantial time and
02672|Wind speed prediction and insight for generalized predictive modeling framework: a comparative study for different artificial intelligence models
   > [no abstract]
02673|Validation of Wireless Volumetric Soil Water Content Sensor Based on Soil Temperature and Impedance Measurements
   > content, stressing ease of use and can be adjusted to operate under different site conditions. Here the authors describe a volumetric soil moisture measurement instrument
02674|Edge-optimized multimodal cross-fusion architecture for efficient crop disease detection
   > learning models (e.g., ResNet50, Inception V3) struggle with computational inefficiency and poor generalizability in real-world farming contexts. This study proposes a lightweight multimodal fusion model … with 0.094-second inference latency on devices with ≤2GB RAM. Validated on 249 unseen field images (95.98% accuracy), this solution bridges the gap between high-performance deep
02675|Epigenetic fidelity in complex biological systems and implications for ageing
   > show that the measurement of epigenetic fidelity is an accurate predictor of cross-species age and present a deep-learning model that predicts chronological age exclusively from
02676|Spatial Dynamics of Invasive Para Grass on a Monsoonal Floodplain, Kakadu National Park, Northern Australia
   > [no term] African para grass (Urochloa mutica) is an invasive weed that has become prevalent across many important freshwater wetlands of the world. In northern Australia, including the World Heritage landscape of
02677|Deep Learning Models for Classifying Apple Leaf Diseases: A Review
   > identify the most effective models for detecting various apple leaf diseases under real-world conditions. The research highlights key challenges and opportunities in optimizing deep learning
02678|Mamba-driven approach for multi-crop disease detection
   > and computational cost by 22% and 30%, respectively. In addition, the model’s cross-crop generalization ability was validated on tea and eggplant disease datasets, demonstrating its efficiency
02679|Spatial and temporal distribution characteristics of Paris polyphylla var. yunnanensis and the prediction of steroidal saponins content
   > infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) to assess the nuances of PPVY chemical composition in different regions, and spectrochemical characterization of steroidal saponins was also modelled for the
02680|Revealing Ancient Wheat Phylogenetic Diversity: Machine Learning and Logistic Regression Identify Triticum sphaerococcum in Bronze Age Iberia
   > [no term] Background/Objectives: Identifying archaeobotanical wheat remains is central to reconstructing the evolutionary history of cereal crops. Beyond documenting agricultural practices, such analyses provide critical evidence of phylogenetic diversity, lineage persistence, and
02681|Spatial Evaluation of Salurnis marginella Occurrence According to Climate Change Using Multiple Species Distribution Models
   > environmental adaptability of pests and the active international trade, it may invade other regions in the future. As the damage to local communities caused by … of the global land area; however, the model predicted this distribution would decrease to 6.85%. Possible areas of spread were identified in Asia and the
02682|Reliability assessment of passive EHRS of IRIS based on the AM-SIS-ANN method
   > sparse data areas, and using neural networks to compute output distributions in other regions, thereby eliminating the need for additional AM-SIS executions and substantially reducing
02683|Deep Learning-Based Fruit and Vegetable Quality Grading Using Computer Vision: A Technical Review of Recent Advances, Challenges, and Future Direction
   > benchmark performance and reliable real-world deployment under varying illumination, occlusion, cultivar diversity, domain shift, limited labeled data, and computational constraints. Based on this synthesis, an
02684|Binding of Clinical Inhibitors to a Model Precursor of a Rationally Selected Multidrug Resistant HIV-1 Protease Is Significantly Weaker Than That to t
   > [no term] We have systematically validated the activity and inhibition of a HIV-1 protease (PR) variant bearing 17 mutations (PR(S17)), selected to represent high resistance by machine learning on genotype-phenotype data. Three
02685|Knowledge distillation for smart agriculture: methods, applications, and future directions
   > The review further highlights emerging solutions, such as adaptive distillation, hardware-aware distillation, cross-domain learning, explainable distillation, dynamic distillation and lifelong learning frameworks. Our findings underscore
02686|Crop Protection against Animals Based on Voice Recognition
   > [no term] Crops in farms are often harmed by animals such as buffaloes, pigs, goats, birds, and wild elephants. Farmers suffer significant losses as a result of this. Farmers are unable to
02687|Surgical fine-tuning for Grape Bunch Segmentation under Visual Domain Shifts
   > of pre-trained Deep Learning models to newly-collected grape images that introduce visual domain shifts, while also substantially reducing the number of tuned parameters.
02688|Classification Layers and Pooling Strategies for Generalization in Plant Disease Identification
   > [no abstract]
02689|Field-scale irrigated winter wheat mapping using a novel cross-region slope length index in 3D canopy hydrothermal and spectral feature space
   > cycling and its role in promoting crop growth. We introduced a novel cross-region Slope Length Index (SLI) to map irrigated and rainfed crops at the … compared to existing products. The SLI method also exhibited strong stability when generalized to the national scope (AET = −74.41 + 0.82 × P, R
02690|Artificial intelligence in animal breeding and genetics: applications, opportunities, and challenges
   > exploration of phenotype–genotype relationships through the lens of AI. Although strictly speaking, generalized linear mixed models, machine learning, and deep learning (DL), all fall under … 0.127 kg for feed intake estimation and an identification accuracy of 93.65%. Another example is the phenotyping of social and aggressive interactions in pigs, which
02691|Automation in the fish industry
   > is often the case on board factory vessels and during seasonal peaks in the wild harvest. With the COVID-19 pandemic, food producers are finding it … adjust accordingly for every fish to reach an acceptable speed and yield. Another significant difference between manufacturing a car and processing a fish is the
02692|TCLeaf-Net: a transformer-convolution framework with global-local attention for robust in-field lesion-level plant leaf disease detection
   > crop growth and reducing yield losses. Yet, in real-field conditions, cluttered backgrounds, domain shifts, and limited lesion-level datasets hinder robust modeling. To address these challenges, … performance on the PlantDoc, Tomato-Leaf, and Rice-Leaf datasets, validating its robustness and generalizability to other plant disease detection scenarios.
02693|Explore Innovative Depth Vision Models with Domain Adaptation
   > data. Nevertheless, due to the high cost of collecting labeled graph data, domain adaptation becomes particularly crucial in supervised graph learning tasks. The performance of existing methods may degrade when there are disparities between training and testing data, especially in challenging … remote sensing image analysis. In this study, an approach to achieving high-quality domain adaptation wi
02694|Mixed Outcomes in Recombination Rates After Domestication: Revisiting Theory and Data
   > goats compared to bezoars but more mixed results in chicken and generally decreased recombination in domesticated sheep compared to mouflon. Our results add to a
02695|Machine Learning as a Tool for Wildlife Management and Research: The Case of Wild Pig-Related Content on Twitter
   > [no term] Wild pigs (Sus scrofa) are a non-native, invasive species that cause considerable damage and transmit a variety of diseases to livestock, people, and wildlife. We explored Twitter, the most popular
02696|Reproducible Transcriptional Remodeling of Sterol Metabolism is Embedded in the Broader Tomato Fruit-Ripening Program
   > [no abstract]
02697|Is there a domestication syndrome in Vitis (Vitaceae) seed morphology?
   > [no term] Abstract Characterizing plant genetic resources and understanding the domestication process are key challenges in horticulture. This study focuses on the common grapevine (Vitis vinifera L.), employing molecular, ampelographic, and morphometric
02698|A novel approach to wind speed modeling: A fast and robust model with high generalizability
   > [no abstract]
02699|EnCropNet: deep feature fusion with channel attention for accurate crop damage classification
   > advancements in Deep Learning (DL), the classification of crop damage under diverse real-world conditions remains challenging due to heterogeneous damage patterns, variable crop types, and … of the publicly available CGIAR Crop Damage Classification (CDC) dataset. To enhance generalization, extensive augmentation techniques such as random rotations, brightness variations, and zoom transformations
02700|WITHDRAWN: Application of object detection algorithm based on deep learning in classification of wild ginseng grades
   > [no abstract]
02701|Development of an effective monitoring and analysis system of modern technologies for the agro-industrial complex development in mountainous areas
   > used to monitor successful practices and technological solutions in agriculture applied in other regions or countries. Such solutions will allow identifying promising options for technology
02702|Climate, population size, and dispersal influences mutational load across the landscape in Vitis arizonica
   > [no term] ABSTRACT The interplay between genetics and the environment determines a population’s ability to survive. Plants, being immobile, are particularly vulnerable to environmental shifts and must adapt to their local environment
02703|Yolo11-Based Real-Time Wild Animal Intrusion Detection With Automated Sms Alert For Smart Farmland Monitoring
   > [no term] Conflicts between humans and wildlife in farming areas have become much worse over the few decades. This is because forests are getting smaller and farms are taking over the land
02704|Cluster Analysis of Climate Change Impact on Agriculture Production
   > data into distinct clusters.These clusters will help to identify patterns in how different regions and agricultural practices are impacted by climate change and ultimately linking
02705|Modelling habitat suitability of the critically endangered Agarwood (Aquilaria malaccensis) in the Indian East Himalayan region
   > [no abstract]
02706|Precise leaf damage detection across diverse species and environments via a large-scale vision model
   > monitoring and yield estimation. However, conventional deep learning models often exhibit poor generalization when deployed across varying species and complex, unstructured field environments. To address … features of lesions, providing a clear explanation for its superior performance and cross-domain reliability. This research establishes a scalable, high-performance paradigm for intelligent crop
02707|EfficientNetB4–Vision Transformer Fusion for Chili Leaf Disease Classification Using Multi-Source Datasets
   > performed separately per source to ensure proportional distribution across subsets. To evaluate generalization capability, the model was assessed across three scenarios: training and testing on … These results demonstrate that incorporating field-collected data into training directly bridges the generalization gap caused by domain shift between laboratory and real-world conditions, outperforming b
02708|Deep Learning Methods for Tassel Count Time-Series
   > time. Consequently, the input images in the foregoing Tasselnet technique are not independent but often form unequal sequences of correlated images. As such, the temporal … Xiao, Y., Zhuang, B., & Shen, C. (2017). TasselNet: counting maize tassels in the wild via local counts regression network. Plant Methods, 13(1), 79. doi:10.1186/s13007-017-0224-0.
02709|Mapping 20-years winter wheat dynamics in global primary planting areas using Gaussian mixture models with adaptive thresholds
   > MODIS surface reflectance. Subsequently, we estimated the actual wheat cover fractions across different regions and years by analyzing crop mixtures within 1°×1° grids with multiple
02710|Development and Comparative Evaluation of Traditional Machine Learning and Deep Learning Models for Rainfall Prediction in Bimodal Rainfall Regions: A
   > decision-making in agriculture, environmental management, and flood risk reduction in Tanzania and other regions facing similar climatic challenges
02711|Comparative Analysis of Machine Learning and Deep Learning Approaches for Hourly Soil Temperature Estimation At Multiple Depths from Meteorological Da
   > ‎meteorological data collected, the models were assessed based on their accuracy, temporal generalization, and variable importance. Results ‎show that among ML models, Random Forest demonstrates
02712|AI-Based Crop Disease Detection and Multilingual Farmer Assistance System
   > includes English, Telugu, Hindi, Tamil, and Kannada. This ensures that farmers from different regions can easily understand and use the system in their preferred language.
02713|Protecting Agriculture Land from Animals and Theft
   > real-time warnings, and automation. But these systems are expensive, environmental perturbations can degrade their operation, and in some instances the boundaries thus drawn may be
02714|Quantifying the Efficacy of Machine Learning Methods Driven by Biophysical Modeling and Remote Sensing to Predict Wheat Yield at Field Scale across Au
   > [no abstract]
02715|Approaches to forecast soil nutrient dynamics for precision agriculture and sustainable fertiliser management: A review
   > long short-term memory (LSTM), ANN). With R2 values above 0.93 and notable decreases in prediction errors, ensemble approaches routinely perform better than traditional linear models. … data quality limitations, spatial sampling constraints, insufficient environmental covariates and reduced model transferability across diverse pedoclimatic regions. Integrating high-resolution soil properties, clim
02716|Count time series and machine learning for climate-driven prediction of rice yellow stem borer infestation in andhra pradesh
   > Maruteru, Bapatla, Ragolu, and Nandyal) over multiple years. The study employs Integer-Valued Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedastic (INGARCH) models along with Artificial Neural Networks (ANN), Support … of Mean Squared Error (MSE) and Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) across different locations and seasons. The findings reveal that YSB populations are significantly influenced
02717|Impacts of Land Use Change and Atmospheric CO2 on Gross Primary Productivity (GPP), Evaporation, and Climate in Southern Amazon
   > in some regions. Moreover, the Amazon is a source of moisture for other regions in the continent, and deforestation over the years may be reducing
02718|Detection of morphometric indicators of the soil surface of a grape plantation using spectral bands of satellite images
   > bootstrapping. Results. The study revealed significant differences in the spectral reflectivity of different site options, which was due to carbonate content, humidity levels and the
02719|Advancing Image Segmentation Techniques for Strawberry Detection in Vision-Based Agricultural Robotics
   > dense foliage occlusions, variable ripeness, and strong illumination variability. Moreover, segmentation models trained on a single dataset often fail to generalize across domains, limiting their practical deployment. This paper presents a comprehensive benchmark … IoU values above 0.95 on Db1 and up to 0.83 on Db3. Cross-domain zero-shot evaluations reveal a substantial generalization gap, with U
02720|A more effective approach for species-level classifications using multi-source remote sensing data: Validation and application to an arid and semi-ari
   > in the overall spatiotemporal accuracy and classification precision of grassland communities across different years, even under varying hydroclimatic conditions. When critical features were carefully selected,
02721|ARMAMENTATION OF THE CROPS USING ASTUTE SENSOR TECHNIQUES AND FUZZY COHERENCE
   > [no term] Internet of things deals with the group of inter-related computing devices and the digital machines which work along with the domain of machine learning without any human mediation in an
02722|A cost-effective method to monitor vegetation changes in steppes ecosystems: A case study on remote sensing of fire and infrastructure effects in east
   > Land degradation is a major environmental and social issue in temperate steppes. It is … resource extraction activities, such as mining and oil extraction, which affect land degradation. Recent technological progress in remote sensing has facilitated the acquirement of high-resolution
02723|Digital phenotyping of agitation in AD/ADRD: A systematic review of multimodal sensing and machine learning pipelines
   > should prioritize temporally explicit and standardized labeling, deployment-oriented evaluation using temporal and cross-site holdouts, and privacy-conscious multimodal systems that are robust, interpretable, and feasible for
02724|Advances in Binocular Stereo Vision-Driven 3D Perception and Intelligent Analysis Methods for Agriculture
   > paper discusses major challenges, including low-texture matching difficulty, occlusions in complex environments, cross-domain generalization, real-time lightweight deployment, and limited dataset availability. Future directions are outlined in
02725|PTv3-HRAC: Structural phenotyping of alfalfa in breeding fields using UAV-derived RGB point clouds, 3D deep learning, and adaptive clustering
   > width, and canopy volume were 0.917, 0.836, 0.822, and 0.844, respectively. Crucially, cross-site and cross-stage validations using an independent dataset from a different location confirmed the framework's stable spatiotemporal performance across key developmental stages. Without
02726|On the Evaluation and Real-World Usage Scenarios of Deep Vessel Segmentation for Retinography
   > surprisingly effective. Additionally we explore the effectiveness of semi-supervised learning for better domain adaptation. Our results show competitive performance on a set of common public
02727|Field-Scale Irrigated Winter Wheat Mapping by a Novel Cross-Region Slope Length Index of 3d Canopy Hydrothermal and Spectral Feature Space from Provin
   > [no abstract]
02728|Paired CYP1A2/3A4-HepG2 phenotyping supports machine-learning classification of literature-curated hepatotoxicity categories
   > [no abstract]
02729|An Algorithmic Framework for Plant-Level AC Power Estimation in a Bifacial Horizontal Single-Axis Tracking PV System Using Explainable and Ensemble Ma
   > showed weaker and more variable performance than randomized validation, indicating that temporal generalization remains challenging. Overall, the results support the use of interpretable PV-domain-guided learning
02730|Machine Learning-Driven LIBS Method for Detecting Heavy Metals (Pb and Cr) in Soils from Different Regions: Eliminating Soil Matrix Effects and Improv
   > [no abstract]
02731|Combining H2o Auto-Ml and Traditional Machine Learning for the Resource Evaluation on Non-Medicinal Parts of Plants: Taking Coptis Deltoidea as an Exa
   > [no abstract]
02732|Pepper-Det: A real-time framework for automated chili pepper detection and harvesting point localization
   > of 9.51 mm. These results outperform other models in the experimental comparison. Cross-dataset validation on the artificial chili pepper model (ACPM) dataset and eggplant datasets
02733|DenseSAM: A model with spatial attention module for black gram and other crop leaf disease classification
   > [no abstract]
02734|Pinpointing High-Yield Climate Windows via a Satellite-Powered RF-GDM Framework for Four Staple Crops
   > model performance is evaluated with an improved enrichment ratio and precision on unseen years and regions, confirming that the identified bins generalize beyond the calibration data. A 10-fold spatial and 5-fold temporal cross-validation ensures … framework is data-driven, satellite-based and computationally lightweight, it can be extended to other regions globally. By translating Earth-observati
02735|Geographically associated endophytic fungi contribute to the tropane alkaloids accumulation of Anisodus tanguticus
   > of the variation, which was the largest contributor. Soil properties variables could independently explain 5% of the variation, and climate variables could explain 1% of … while bacteria explained only 5%. Random forests and Mantel test showed that different regionally enriched endophytic fungi have a greater impact on the accumulation of
02736|Improving Land Cover Segmentation Across Satellites Using Domain Adaptation
   > Additionally, land cover tends to differ in appearance from one region to another; therefore, having labeled data from one location does not necessarily help map … to over 12 bands. In this study, our aim is to use domain adaptation (DA) to solve the aforementioned problems. We applied a well-performing DA
02737|An integrated remote sensing-machine learning framework for assessing plant air pollution tolerance using satellite-derived air quality and reanalysis
   > for capturing interactions among pollutant exposure, meteorology, and plant physio-biochemical responses in real-world conditions. This study developed an integrated remote sensing and machine learning framework
02738|AgroSegNet: Semantic Segmentation Guided Crop Image Extraction using Enhanced Mask RCNN
   > mechanism is introduced to capture fine-grained details essential for precise segmentation. Additionally, domain adaptation techniques are employed to enhance model generalization across diverse agricultural environments. Through extensive experimentation and comparative analysis, AgroSegNet demonstrates
02739|S 2 CL-Leaf Net : Recognizing Leaf Images Like Human Botanists
   > of details by amplifying the discriminative regions with a weighted sampling of different regions. Furthermore, we construct the hierarchical attention mechanism to produce attention maps
02740|Implementation of a Face Detection Surveillance Security System in a Rice Farm Using Supervised Machine Learning Techniques
   > verification, and comparison against conventional methods using the widely recognized Labeled Faces in the Wild (LFW) dataset.Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed system achieves an
02741|Advances in Computational Modeling for Climate Change Prediction Based on Machine Learning
   > recurrent neural networks, and long and short-term memory networks, as well as cross-domain fusion methods, such as the combination of machine learning and physical models, … data scarcity, technical barriers to multimodal data fusion, insufficient model interpretability, and generalization capability issues for cross-region and cross-time prediction. Combined with application scenarios such as ag
02742|Design and Implementation of an LSTM Model with Embeddings on MCUs for Prediction of Meteorological Variables
   > Raspberry Pi Pico. An analysis of the memory usage, energy consumption, and generalization across different regions is also included. The results show that the use of embedding
02743|Data Augmentation through Background Removal for Apple Leaf Disease Classification Using the MobileNetV2 Model
   > data augmentation technique for improving the robustness of disease classification models in real-world conditions.
02744|Anchor-Based In-Row navigation line detection under diverse agricultural conditions
   > [no abstract]
02745|Research on multi class pests identification and detection based on fusion attention mechanism with Mask-RCNN-CBAM
   > dependency. Future work will focus on lightweight deployment for edge devices and domain adaptation, offering a robust solution for intelligent pest monitoring systems that balance
02746|Climate-Driven Forecasting of Brown Planthopper in Rice Fields Using Hybrid Machine Learning and Time Series Models
   > Bapatla, Ragolu, and Nandyal). The models tested include the Negative Binomial Integer-Valued Generalized Autoregressive Conditional Heteroskedasticity (NBINGARCH) model in combination with Artificial Neural Networks (ANN), … on Mean Squared Error (MSE) and Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) across different locations and seasons. Some models, however, demonstrated signs of overfitting, as evident
02747|A sequential transfer learning framework for whitefly detection in low-data agricultural environments
   > [no abstract]
02748|Photovoltaic power forecasting and anomaly detection: a comparative study of statistical, deep learning, and zero-shot foundation models on seven year
   > Faults and gradual performance degradation in photovoltaic plants often remain undetected, causing energy losses and increasing maintenance … loss of 21 kWh; the blackout is detected by all models. Zero-shot spatial transfer of the Prophet model to the second inverter achieves R 2
02749|Internet of Plants (IoP): An IoT-Based Platform for Environmental Monitoring and Phenological Analysis
   > and identifying temperature as the dominant contributing variable rather than predicting an independent outcome. The dynamic alarm system, integrated with crop phenological stages, demonstrated greater … for precision agriculture applications in the Laja–Bajío region of Mexico and in other regions with similar production systems.
02750|Feasibility of Fourier transform-near infrared spectroscopy and machine learning for high-throughput discrimination of wild clover ( Trifolium) specie
   > [no term] Clover (Trifolium) plants with rich protein, fiber and nutrient contents provide high forage yield, essential for efficient animal production. They also offer further ecological benefits including erosion control, soil reclamation,
02751|Rapid non-destructive authentication of wild and cultivated ginseng using SW-NIR hyperspectral imaging and Random Forest classification
   > embedded in handheld hyperspectral image sensors for in-field inspection, and offers a transferable template for other high-value medicinal plants.
02752|Deep Learning-Based Detection and Classification of Rice Leaf Diseases Using ResNet-50 with Augmentation and K-Fold Cross-Validation
   > substantially higher average accuracy of 99.6%. This discrepancy suggests potential sensitivity to data partitioning and indicates the need for careful interpretation, as cross-validation may introduce … study limited by the use of a single-region dataset, which may affect generalizability. Therefore, the integration of ResNet-50, augmentation, and cross-validation shows promising results for
02753|Advancing multiple sclerosis lesion segmentation: A multimodal CNN and vision transformer approach with attention mechanisms
   > [no abstract]
02754|Predicting the suitable habitat distribution of Polygonatum kingianum under current and future climate scenarios in southwestern Yunnan, China
   > [no abstract]
02755|Geographic origin discrimination and quantification of phenolic compounds and moisture in Artemisia argyi folium using NIRS and chemometrics
   > origin discrimination of AAF, and it provided a chemical basis for using cross-year samples in NIRS analysis. Multivariate statistical analysis (four methods) and six machine … network (CNN) models achieving scores of 1.0000 across performance metrics, indicating strong generalization and robustness. Partial least squares regression (PLSR) models for 17 phenolic components
02756|Bioinformatics in Russia: history and present-day landscape
   > Dedicated and shared centers for genomics, proteomics, and bioinformatics are active in different regions of Russia. Present-day bioinformatics in Russia is characterized by research issues
02757|Big Data Analytics for Precision Irrigation in Smart Agriculture
   > decision, and new technology to run large-scale irrigation systems and to open new regions with deficit irrigation, are the requirements for the advancement of irrigation
02758|A Deep Learning Model to Predict Food Losses at the National and Sub-National Levels
   > [no abstract]
02759|A framework for accurate food crop yield prediction from multispectral imagery and meteorological data
   > classification and LSTM-SAVI can be applied on multiple crop types and in different regions using opensource datasets, the historical yields, the spectral indices and the
02760|Vegetation Identification in Hyperspectral Images Using Distance/Correlation Metrics
   > providing information on the distribution, structure, and health of plant communities in different regions and biomes. However, identifying vegetation in multi and hyperspectral images remains
02761|Removing Out – Of – Distribution Samples on Classification Task
   > [no term] Out - of - distribution (OOD) samples are frequently encountered when deploying a classification model in plenty of real-world machine learning-based applications. Those samples are normally sampling far away from
02762|Root traits correlate with crop rhizosphere microbiome diversity independent of legume relatedness
   > Bayesian models, we found rhizosphere composition was shaped by individual species identity, independent of host phylogeny (intraclass correlation = 0.40–0.79). This suggests that closely related
02763|Designing A Dispatch Engine for Hybrid Renewable Power Station Using Mixed-Integer Linear Programming (MILP) Technique
   > data pertaining to load, wind, and PV power outputs is obtained from different locations in the Sultanate of Oman. The real-time data is utilized to
02764|Artificial intelligence for livestock: a narrative review of the applications of computer vision systems and large language models for animal farming
   > or lighting conditions. In fact, larger datasets improve a model’s ability to generalize across factors such as lighting conditions, animal posture, occlusion, and camera angles
02765|Multi-Task Vision Transformer for Date Palm Disease Analysis with Localization and Severity Estimation
   > [no abstract]
02766|An investigation of past and future LULC using multilayer perceptron-Markov chain techniques: a case study of a Himalayan smart city (2005–2040)
   > [no abstract]
02767|An Efficient Deep Learning Approach for Automated Image Classification
   > structures. The results reported have shown improved classification accuracy, noise resistance and decreased dependence on manually engineered features, which have validated their applicability to real-world automation. Nonetheless, issues like data dependency, the cost of computation and generalizability across datasets are still apparent. This research finds that deep learning has … decision sup
02768|Understanding the shortcomings of heart rate variability as a tool for autonomic analysis
   > nervous system health. In cardiovascular medicine specifically, diminished HRV serves as an independent predictor of mortality following myocardial infarction and correlates with heart failure deterioration. … for coronary artery disease and stroke. The reduction in HRV parameters reflects decreased parasympathetic activity, which directly correlates with heightened mortality risk and increased ar
02769|CY-Bench: a comprehensive benchmark dataset for sub-national crop yield forecasting (Preprint)
   > system science and machine learning communities, facilitating research on time series forecasting, domain adaptation, and online learning. The dataset (https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.11502142, (Paudel et al., 2025a)) and
02770|Advances in Information Sensing and Intelligent Monitoring of Field Crops Throughout the Full Growth Cycle
   > biotic-stress identification under specified conditions, whereas cross-stage state inheritance, consistent reference measurements, independent validation, and conversion of monitoring results into executable tasks remain insufficiently established. … scale, and checked against management and equipment records. Future work should strengthen cross-crop and cross-region validation, mechanistic and da
02771|Predicting network modules of cell cycle regulators using relative protein abundance statistics
   > spindle assembly checkpoint" and "negative regulation of cyclin-dependent protein kinase by cyclin degradation" contribute the least. These results suggest that the statistics of these predictions
02772|Cross-Scene Open-Set Hyperspectral Image Classification via Joint Distribution Matching and Unknown-Class Uncertainty Suppression
   > the nonlinear nature of land-cover characteristics, the diversity of scenes, and the distribution shifts caused by variations in acquisition conditions or sensors, deep HSI open-set domain adaptation (OSDA) has emerged as a key approach to tackling cross-scene HSI … 1.36–<inline-formula> <tex-math notation="LaTeX">$1.39~\mu $ </tex-math></inline-formula>m. To address this, we propose a more genera
02773|Fall Detection Using Federated Lightweight CNN Models: A Comparison of Decentralized vs. Centralized Learning
   > time of 111.17 s per round. These findings highlight the model’s strong generalization, low computational burden, and suitability for edge deployment. Future work will extend evaluation to external datasets and address issues such as client drift and adversarial robustness in
02774|AI-Driven Crop Yield Prediction Models for Smallholder Farmers in Sub-Saharan Africa
   > contexts remains constrained by data scarcity, coarse spatial resolution, limited validation under real-world conditions, and weak integration of farmer-level constraints. The paper highlights key gaps
02775|Mapping molar shapes on signaling pathways
   > [no term] A major challenge in evolutionary developmental biology is to understand how genetic mutations underlie phenotypic changes. In principle, selective pressures on the phenotype screen the gene pool of the population.
02776|AI-Augmented Big Data Analytics for Precision Agriculture Yield Forecasting
   > are built and validated for a given region, the architecture supports seamless generalization to other regions—both within India and across the globe. Cross-regional generalization requires harnessing the large volume of analytics built across multiple combinations of yield-target crops, provinces, stations, and years in India. Support for cross-regional generalization come from predictions being 
02777|Plantsegnerf: A Few-Shot, Cross-Dataset Method for Plant 3d Instance Point Cloud Reconstruction Via Joint-Channel Nerf with Multi-View Image Instance 
   > [no abstract]
02778|A Generalizable Model for the Facial Recognition of Sika Deer with Enhanced Cross-Domain Performance
   > [no abstract]
02779|Integrating Metagenomics and Deep Learning for Accurate Microbial Species Differentiation
   > over traditional methods, persistent challenges include reference dependency, limited interpretability, data leakage, domain shift across platforms and environments, and the absence of standardized benchmarks. The … that future progress depends on multimodal, reference-free foundation models validated on taxonomically independent datasets to achieve generalizable, interpretable, and biologically r
02780|UAV-Based Deep Learning for Weed Detection in Sugar Beet: A Case Study from Beni Mellal (Morocco) and Implications for Site-Specific Spraying
   > quantify herbicide savings, treatment efficacy, yield response, economic return, edge-device throughput, and transferability across regions and seasons.
02781|Multi-location evaluation of cantaloupe (Cucumis melo L.) cultivars for their aroma and flavor related volatile composition using a metabolomics appro
   > cultivars. This study evaluated VOC profiles of nine cantaloupe cultivars grown in different locations (Texas, Arizona, Georgia, California, North Carolina and Indiana) across the United
02782|Bamboo biomass estimation for sustainable forest management and climate mitigation: a comprehensive review of allometric models and emerging technolog
   > and bioenergy production. Representative case studies from Asia, Africa, Latin America, and other regions reveal key methodological trends, including species-specific modeling, regional adaptation, and the … of standardized biometric parameters. Persistent challenges include limited data availability, restricted model transferability across regions, and the influence of structural variation among 
02783|AgroYOLOvNext: A Multi-Scale Transformer-Enhanced Framework with Domain-Adaptive Contrastive Learning for Plant Disease Classification on the Plant Vi
   > setting remains a difficult problem because of variation in illumination, intra-class diversity, domain shift between laboratory and field data, and occlusions. While recent deep learning-based
02784|Microbiome based regulation of plant insect interactions
   > [no abstract]
02785|Detection of unknown strawberry diseases based on OpenMatch and two-head network for continual learning
   > for the detection of unknown plant diseases; Open Set Recognition (OSR) and Out-of-Distribution (OoD) detection. Despite the significant progress in OSR, it is still premature
02786|ResNet-Driven Automated Identification of Custard Apple Diseases for Sustainable Smart Agriculture
   > using a deep learning-based classification approach. Using an extensive image database from different regions, including India, Portugal, Thailand, Cuba and the West Indies, the system
02787|Remote sensing of northern wild rice (Zizania palustris) using uncrewed aerial systems
   > [no abstract]
02788|Fecal steroids as a potential tool for conservation paleobiology in East Africa
   > [no abstract]
02789|GEM-Forest: A Global satellite EMbedding–based map of forests and tree crops for 2020
   > main GEM-FnF2020 product (0.5–14.8 %). Our proposed approach demonstrates strong potential for temporal transferability across the 2017–2025 period covered by AEF embeddings. This capability allows … findings demonstrate that AEF embeddings combined with simple ML approaches support accurate, transferable, and computationally-efficient global forest mapping, with remaining limitations related to t
02790|Phenotyping maize stay green traits via in situ leaf hyperspectral reflectance sensing
   > that drought stress significantly affected stay-green-related traits and led to a 43.5% decrease in grain yield in the inbred lines. The grain dry yield (GDY) … 0.12 ± 0.01) outperformed the chlorophyll absorption band indices when using RF. Leave-one-out-location/year cross-validation revealed pronounced variation in model transferability driven by environmental and temporal domain shifts. RF con
02791|Crop presence and growth-stage mapping in a tropical smallholder setting in Hawai‘i with PlanetScope time series
   > (LSTM) models across varying input time-series lengths and evaluated their ability to generalize both temporally and spatially, a crucial but rarely tested aspect of operational deployment in related works. Temporal generalization was assessed by withholding training data from different times of the year … found that LSTM’s ability to explicitly model sequential data resulted in superior generaliz
02792|Multiple Abiotic Stress Responses in Crops: From Physiological Adaptation to Molecular Mechanisms
   > how a novel stress combination is likely to behave.Persistent gaps remain in cross-crop comparison, multi-omics integration, and field-scale validation of nanotechnology and machine-learning tools.We conclude
02793|Intelligent Monitoring of Diseases and Insect Pests in Rice and Wheat: A Review of Multimodal Data Fusion and Early Warning Systems
   > data acquisition and representation, unimodal recognition, multimodal fusion, temporal prediction, and field generalization with respect to data requirements, task outputs, application contexts, and the strength … future risk. However, many reported gains are weakened by inadequate spatiotemporal alignment, non-independent data partitioning, limited missing-modality tests, and insufficient cross-l
02794|A Multi-scale Cross Domain Tea Dataset Augmentation Method
   > significantly enhance synthetic data quality for tea-picking systems. Key innovations include cultivar-specific domain adaptation and hierarchical style transfer preserving biological spatial relationships, offering a robust
02795|Explaining the spatial heterogeneity in soil–rice yield interactions via a hybrid interpretable machine learning and spatial analysis framework
   > yields were higher in the eastern, central and western regions than in other regions. RF and SHAP results revealed that soil physical and chemical factors
02796|Methods for Measuring Geodiversity in Large Overhead Imagery Datasets
   > image datasets for specific object detection and classification tasks. For example, models trained on datasets with ethnocentric biases in image content have been shown to … geographic regions - useful for comparing differences in object class appearance in different locations and/or spatial scales. A complementary Geospatial Inception Score is proposed to
02797|A hybrid PCA and 1D-CNN approach with regional priors for accurate agricultural monitoring: a case study with EuroCropsML
   > [no abstract]
02798|Synergy between TROPOMI sun-induced chlorophyll fluorescence and MODIS spectral reflectance for understanding the dynamics of gross primary productivi
   > regarding whether there is a unique relationship between SIF and GPP across different sites and PFTs and how we can improve GPP estimates using solely … between GPP and SIF d was strongly site-specific and PFT-dependent. Furthermore, the generalized linear model (GLM), fitted between SIF d , GPP, and site and
02799|Out-of-Distribution Generalization in Climate-Aware Yield Prediction with Earth Observation Data
   > promise in yield prediction using satellite and weather data, their ability to generalize across geographic regions and years - critical for real-world deployment - remains largely untested. We benchmark two state-of-the-art models, GNN-RNN and MMST-ViT, under realistic out-of-distribution (OOD) conditions using the large-scale CropNet dataset spanning 1,200+ U.S. counties from 2017-2022. Through 
02800|Uncertainty Guarantees on Automated Precision Weeding using Conformal Prediction
   > two real-world scenarios: one under in-distribution conditions, the other reflecting a near out-of-distribution setting. The results show that we are able to provide formal, i.e.
02801|Large-scale irrigation mapping at field level in Northern Germany with integrated use of Sentinel-2, Landsat 8 and Sentinel-1 time series
   > levels (approximately 80% in most of tested scenarios). The performance varied across different regions and showed the significance of availability of observations during the growing
02802|A hybrid approach combining a phylogenetic method and Approximate Bayesian Computation Random Forest for phylogenetic network inference: application t
   > [no term] Abstract Asian rice is one of the best documented crops in terms of genetic diversity. The domestication process, that probably started 9000 years ago in China, remains difficult to infer
02803|Genome Sequence Resource of Curvularia clavata Causing Leaf Spot Disease on Tobacco by Oxford Nanopore PromethION
   > SQK-LSK109 kit. The constructed library was added to the flow cell and transferred to the Oxford Nanopore PromethION platform for sequencing.The Illumina and ONT data … J.-R. 2013. Comparative analysis of fungal genomes reveals different plant cell wall degrading capacity in fungi. BMC Genomics 14:274. https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2164-14-274 Crossref, ISI, Google ScholarZhong, L.-C.,
02804|Animal Detection based Smart Farming in Animal Repellent Using AI and Deep Learning
   > [no term] The combination of artificial intelligence (AI) and deep learning in agriculture has ushered in a new era in agriculture with new solutions designed to solve many problems. This paper presents
02805|Diversity of alien roadside herbs along an elevational gradient in western Mexico
   > Mexico, as a megadiverse country, has lower numbers of alien species than other regions in America. However, there is a lack of information on the … significantly correlated with elevation, still; higher values were found at lower elevations. Generalised linear models for relative species richness and relative abundance of aliens with
02806|Performance of Classification Algorithms for Prediction of Crop Cultivation by Reducing the Dimensionality of a Data Set
   > the 12 various nutrients present in the soil samples collected from the different regions of Dindigul district. Using PCA, the dataset has been reduced to
02807|Integrative machine learning and structure-based computational modeling reveal germination-driven enrichment of bioactive dipeptides in pigmented rice
   > [no abstract]
02808|A hybrid Granger TCN framework for generating climate analogues and determining the future of agricultural practices
   > Gwalior, Ludhiana and Kashmir. The study focuses on finding out the specific future years while which the maximum temperature of Kashmir (output region), will match … present years and given the possibility of match of maximum temperature in future years. The standard deviation of RMSE across 75 years of mapping is
02809|Applications of deep learning in automated image classification: a review
   > learning, problems still exist including limited datasets, computing ‎requirements, and lack of generalizability across many settings. Researchers support lightweight ‎model designs, innovative augmentation techniques, and dataset extension to help solve these ‎challenges. Future developments in architectures and cross-domain applications have great ‎potential to widen the range of efficiency of d
02810|Cross-domain steganography for hiding images within videos
   > [no abstract]
02811|Assessing putative bias in prediction of anti-microbial resistance from real-world genotyping data under explicit causal assumptions
   > AMR. Thus, prediction models can perform poorly on new data with sampling distribution shifts. In this work –under an explicit set of causal assumptions– we … that of BLR (0.94) on both out-of-bag samples from bootstrap and the external test (n=1,085), where AUROCs do not decrease. We observe a 1%−5% gain in AUROC with bias-handling compared to the
02812|Towards Robust Deep Learning-based Rumex Obtusifolius Detection from Drone Images
   > Domain adaptation (DA) addresses the challenge of transferring a machine learning model trained on a source domain to a target domain with a different data distribution. In this work, we study DA … vehicles (UAVs). We find that Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) models, specifically ResNets, generalize poorly to the target domain, even after fine-tuning on the source data. Applying moment-matching
02813|The Plasma Diagnostic Suite and Real-Time State Estimation for a Compact Spherical-Tokamak Breeder: Magnetics, Thomson, Interferometry, and Bolometry 
   > (AUC) of 0.980 at a reconstruction normalised RMS error of 0.396, and degrades gracefully rather than catastrophically as channels are removed. A multi-modal fusion of … is guarded by an epistemic gate: when its posterior variance or an out-of-distribution score crosses threshold, authority is handed back to a deterministic floor, with
02814|Genomic and common garden approaches yield complementary results for quantifying environmental drivers of local adaptation in rubber rabbitbrush, a fo
   > [no term] Abstract The spatial structure of genomic and phenotypic variation across populations reflects historical and demographic processes as well as evolution via natural selection. Characterizing such variation can provide an important
02815|A comprehensive analysis integrating phenotypic assessment uncovering thornless cultivar lineages in Aralia elata
   > [no term] Aralia elata is an Araliaceae woody plant species found in Northeastern Asia. To understand how genetic pools are distributed for A.elata clones, we were to analyze the population structure of
02816|Explainable Quantile CNN-LSTM model for uncertainty-aware multi-layer soil moisture prediction in tropical cocoa plantations
   > for training and validation, whereas Zones 2 and 3 were reserved for independent testing to ensure spatial generalization and robustness. The proposed model achieved consistently high predictive accuracy across five … of 0.948, low RMSE (0.39–0.79 across layers), and MAPE generally below 3%. Independent testing in Zones 2 and 3 demonstrated minimal performance degradation, confirming strong transf
02817|Applications and advances of artificial intelligence in plant genome annotation
   > [no abstract]
02818|Spectral Phenological Typologies for Improving Cross-Dataset in Mediterranean Winter Cereals
   > three wheat tests (remaining 20%), labeled using other clustering techniques, and an independent barley dataset from diverse geographic locations (Valladolid and Soria). The filtering process … a Kappa of 0.967, and an F1-score of 0.977 in the wheat external test. Furthermore, the model showed, when applied to barley, that its phenological
02819|FFT-DANN: Frequency-Domain Divide-and-Conquer Strategy for Unsupervised Synthetic-to-Real Adaptation in Agricultural Small Object Detection
   > [no abstract]
02820|PhosBoost: Improved phosphorylation prediction recall using gradient boosting and protein language models
   > models and gradient‐boosting trees to predict protein phosphorylation from experimentally derived data. Trained on data obtained from a comprehensive plant phosphorylation database, qPTMplants, we compared … inferred positive phosphosites. We provide evidence to show that PhosBoost models are transferable across species and scalable for genome‐wide protein phosphorylation predictions. PhosBoost is
02821|Year-independent prediction of rice grain protein content using machine learning with agronomy-aligned multi-year field data
   > making robust prediction under realistic field conditions challenging. This study evaluated the year-independent predictability of rice grain protein content using multi-year field data and machine … Models were trained using both plot-level and replicate-mean datasets, and evaluated using leave-one-year-out cross-validation to simulate prediction under unseen growing seasons. Replicate aggregatio
02822|Enhancing digital mapping of soil organic carbon through spatial modeling and validation
   > non-spatial variables and random cross-validation, (3) classic RF with non-spatial variables and spatial cross-validation, and (4) spatial RF with non-spatial variables and random cross-validation. Using
02823|From patterns to decisions: detecting crop sequence and their drivers with explainable AI at field level in Denmark
   > [no abstract]
02824|Rapid identification of species, sex and maturity by mass spectrometric analysis of animal faeces
   > [no term] BACKGROUND: We describe a new approach to the recovery of information from faecal samples, based on the analysis of the molecular signature generated by rapid evaporative ionisation mass spectrometry (REIMS).
02825|Diverse signatures of convergent evolution in cactus-associated yeasts
   > cacti. We inferred that the ecological association of yeasts with cacti arose independently approximately 17 times. Using a machine learning-based approach, we further found that … We also identified horizontal gene transfer and duplication events of plant cell wall-degrading enzymes in distantly related cactophilic clades, suggesting that putatively adaptive traits evolved independently through d
02826|CCNet: A Cross‐Channel Enhanced CNN for Blind Image Denoising
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Nowadays, blind image denoising with deep convolutional neural network (CNN) is one of the research hotspots in the field of image denoising. Relying on the convolutional operation and respective
02827|Progress and state-of-the-art on intelligent fault diagnosis of sliding bearings in reactor coolant pumps
   > [no abstract]
02828|Federated Multitask Learning for HyperFace
   > promising field in machine learning owing to its capability to improve the generalization performance of all tasks by sharing knowledge among the related tasks. MTL … optimize the utility of the MTL model. In FMTL, all the participants independently train their local models on their own dataset in parallel and only
02829|Flower Visitation through the Lens: Exploring the Foraging Behaviour of Bombus terrestris with a Computer Vision-Based Application
   > [no term] Abstract To understand the processes behind pollinator declines, and thus to maintain pollination efficiency, we also have to understand fundamental drivers influencing pollinator behaviour. In this study, we aim to
02830|WMA-YieldNet: A weather-modulated attention network for cross-year winter wheat yield prediction using multi-stage hyperspectral data
   > samples through a dynamic weighted-loss strategy. WMA-YieldNet achieved stable performance on the independent 2025 test set, with an R 2 of 0.80 ± 0.01, an … 15.11 ± 0.50%, outperforming SVR, RF, 1D-CNN, Bi-LSTM, TCN, and Stage-Transformer. Preliminary independent-site validation using the Xinxiang 2026 field dataset showed moderate transferability, with an R 2 of 0.75 ± 0.03, an RMSE of 1255.58
02831|Physiological process-based feature engineering enables robust estimation of crop gross primary production under data-limited conditions
   > (ML) methods for GPP estimation require extensive training data and exhibit poor generalization performance beyond training conditions. To address these limitations, we developed a hybrid … ML strengths and achieved higher accuracy than the baseline models. However, under cross-site validation with limited training data, ANNh demonstrated robust performance across both crops, whereas ANNs showed s
02832|Artificial Intelligence-based Geo-fencing Systems to Avoid Animal Invasion in the Agricultural Fields
   > [no term] Agricultural fields in the world are facing a problem with the invasion of wild animals. These animals are causing crop loss, which leads to an increase in the economic burden
02833|Fault detection algorithm in Auto Encoders (AE), through domain generalization strategies, using Artificial Intelligence (AI)
   > This work presents the application of domain generalization (DG) strategies in unsupervised deep learning methods, employing a Long Short-Term … stage, a hybrid model combining LSTM-AE and DG techniques was developed. The domain generalization strategies investigated include Domain-Adversarial Neural Networks (DANN), Domain Alignment (DA), and
02834|An intelligent soil fertility evaluation system using soil sense predictor and random forest
   > [no abstract]
02835|Pollination supply models from a local to global scale
   > [no term] Abstract. Ecological intensification has been embraced with great interest by the academic sector but is still rarely taken up by farmers because monitoring the state of different ecological functions is
02836|Early fawn‐rearing habitat of mule deer in an agricultural landscape
   > [no term] Abstract Survival from birth to recruitment into the adult population can greatly influence population dynamics of wild ungulates like mule deer. Fawn survival can respond to the quality of both
02837|AI-Based Crop Disease Detection from Leaf Images: A Focused Review and Robust Evaluation Framework
   > from a leaf image. It reviews representative image-based studies, identifies the controlled-to-field generalization problem as the central research gap, and proposes a focused evaluation framework based on image preprocessing, transfer learning, leakage-resistant dataset partitioning, and independent external testing. PlantVillage is treated as a controlled benchmark and PlantDoc as a field-like e
02838|Multi-Head Self-Attention Fusion Network for Enhanced Multi-Class Crop Disease Classification
   > (MSFM) optimize local texture details and global spatial relationships. The model was trained on a combined dataset of PlantVillage and locally collected images, improving adaptability to real-world conditions. It achieved 98.66% training accuracy and 99.0% test accuracy across 76
02839|Field Safe: An IoT-Based Camera Monitoring System for Preventing Animal Crop Damage
   > [no term] Crop damage caused by wild and stray animals remains a significant challenge in modern agriculture, resulting in substantial economic losses and increased labor requirements for continuous field monitoring. This paper
02840|Correlation between microbial communities and flavor compounds in Suantangzi dough from Liaoning Province, China
   > genera were speculated to produce different flavors in Suantangzi dough made in different regions. These findings provide a theoretical foundation for microbial community dynamics and
02841|Noninvasive Risk Stratification Based on Renal Tubular Injury Phenotypes: A Deep Learning Study for Predicting Vesicoureteral Reflux in Children
   > 0.7997 under the bilateral-side input setting, demonstrating stable discriminative performance and favourable generalisation. Quality control analyses indicated broadly consistent distributions of key image quality metrics across data splits, mitigating potential bias from dataset shift. Collectively, deep learning-based decoding of tubular dysfunction-related phenotypic readouts enables noninvasi
02842|Digital mapping of soil texture with the use of MLP, Decision Tree and RF models in Iran's desert region
   > [no abstract]
02843|Insights into the structure and function of the rate-limiting enzyme of chlorophyll degradation through analysis of a bacterial Mg-dechelatase homolog
   > from chlorophyll a. This reaction is the first committed step of chlorophyll degradation pathway in plants and is thus indispensable for the process of leaf
02844|Vision Transformers (ViTs) in Computer Vision: A Survey on Architectures, Training Paradigms, and Real-World Applications
   > we identify persistent challenges data efficiency on small datasets [4], robustness to distribution shifts and adversarial attacks, interpretability of attention maps, environmental cost of largescale
02845|Development of an AI-Based Animal Intrusion Detection System for Agricultural Lands Using ESP32-CAM and TinyML
   > [no term] Animal invasion is one of the major threats observed recent times in the agricultural lands. This is due to the extension of farm lands to feed the increasing population. There
02846|Temporal Deep Learning for Satellite-Based Sugarcane Monitoring and Age Estimation
   > [no abstract]
02847|Image-based machine learning models for customized soil moisture management
   > [no term] Crop growth can vary even under the same cultivation conditions, highlighting the limitations of conventional smart farming systems that apply uniform treatments to all crops. These average-based approaches often overlook
02848|Hybrid Deep Learning Model for Coffee Leaf Disease Detection Using CNN DeiT
   > of 92.3%, and a ROC-AUC of 95.6%. Robustness analysis shows that performance degradation remains limited (1.6%–3.4%) under various perturbation conditions, while out-of-distribution evaluation indicates strong generalization capability with only a minor accuracy decrease. These findings confirm that the hybrid CNN–Transformer architecture effectively enhances classification performance, robustness
02849|Artificial intelligence-driven multi-omics integration for plant enhancement: advances, challenges, and future perspectives
   > [no abstract]
02850|Dynamic changes in cropland under the cropland balance policy: a case study of Hunan Province
   > kappa coefficient of 0.85). The Geo-Informatic Tupu revealed that the cropland area decreased by 3.15% between 1999 and 2014, with the loss of croplands to … declined by 0.4%. The regression coefficient of mixed land use and cropland distribution shifted from negative (−0.83 to −0.79) to positive (−0.78 to 0.81) between
02851|Deep learning approach for vertical soil moisture profile estimation using hydrometeorological data
   > used global SM products, demonstrating its relative advantage. Moreover, sensitivity analysis and spatial transferability assessments highlight the efficacy and generalizability of the model across regions. Overall, these findings establish Conv1D-LSTM as a
02852|Detecting invasive insects using Uncrewed Aerial Vehicles and Variational AutoEncoders
   > [no abstract]
02853|HMSA-Net: A lightweight transfer learning model for agricultural disease segmentation
   > [no abstract]
02854|Prediction of environmental indicators in Agriculture land leveling using artificial intelligence techniques
   > investigated. The study was consisted of 90 samples were collected from 3 different regions. The grid size was set 20 m in 20 m (20*20)
02855|Tren dan Tantangan Deep Learning untuk Identifikasi Penyakit Daun Padi: Tinjauan Literatur Sistematis
   > analysis reveals a significant gap between model performance on controlled datasets and real-world conditions. The main challenges identified include limited availability of representative datasets, low model generalization capability, high computational complexity, and lack of model interpretability. In addition, practical
02856|SwiftM: A Novel Botanical Knowledge Distillation Framework for Biology‐Informed Plant Disease Recognition
   > approach that combines agricultural expertise with machine learning. The framework demonstrates significant cross‐domain generalization: 99.19% accuracy on sweet orange diseases, 99.81% on mango diseases and
02857|Use of machine learning for olive cultivation: A review
   > in this context, promoting the notion of regional goods being producible in different regions. In this study, studies were carried out in the field of
02858|Plant uORF-pep Database: A Multi-evidence Integrative Resource for Upstream Open Reading Frames and Their Encoded Peptides in Plants
   > from six species, including uORF-level validation of 5.3 K Arabidopsis uORFs; (2) cross-species conservation analysis across 10 plants, identifying 85 K genes with conserved uORFs;
02859|Multitask Singularity Regression Kriging for Spatio-Temporal Soil NPK Crop Stress Yield-Prediction
   > geostatistical interpolation of residuals, but standard implementations treat each agronomic response variable independently, use a fixed single-scale notion of spatial context, and rarely report the … the resulting residuals per task and per date. MSRK is instantiated and stress-tested on real precision-agriculture data from three linked field practicals. Leakage-controlled 5-fold spatial cross-v
02860|A study on the invariance in security whatever the dimension of images for the steganalysis by deep-learning
   > [no term] In this paper, we study the performance invariance of convolutional neural networks when confronted with variable image sizes in the context of a more "wild steganalysis". First, we propose two
02861|Counterfactual Explanations for Plant Disease Classification
   > rate. Extension to PlantWild yields larger PVA drops (16.6–18.6 pp) and qualitative degradation on in-the-wild imagery, identifying current limitations of the approach when applied outside
02862|Advancing Ecological Research with MobileNet-SSD V2 CNN: A Leap in Machine Learning
   > Abstract Across different regions, the ongoing struggle between humans and animals takes various shapes, including
02863|Study of Transfer Learning Approach in Fuzzy MPCM Model for Fennel Crop Mapping
   > [no abstract]
02864|State-of-the-Art Sugarcane Production in African Region
   > [no abstract]
02865|Smart Farming Application for Protecting Animal Intrusion Using AI
   > position. In this fleetly evolving scenario, managing the relationship with the rudiments external to the farming ecosystem, similar as wildlife, is a applicable open issue.
02866|AgrI Challenge: A Data-Centric AI Competition for Cross-Team Validation in Agricultural Vision
   > agricultural vision often achieve high accuracy on curated datasets but fail to generalize under real field conditions due to distribution shifts between training and deployment environments. Moreover, most machine learning competitions focus … as fixed resources, leaving the role of data collection practices in model generalization largely unexplored. We introduce the AgrI Challenge, a data-centr
02867|AgriMAPO: A multimodal automatic prompt optimization approach for crop disease classification using large language models
   > scored 40.3%. Further analysis showed that the optimized multimodal prompts exhibit excellent generalization, transferring effectively across different datasets and models. This study provides a training-free, highly generalizable solution for few-shot, fine-grained disease recognition in agriculture, significantly reducing reliance on … on soybean diseases, 50% higher than GPT-4o. • Optimized pro
02868|Application of machine learning in multifunctional green roof assessments: a systematic review
   > relying on large-scale RS assessment to hybrid data sources, which can improve generalisation and reflect real-world conditions. Another valuable insight drawn demonstrates the need for hyperparameter tuning using the Bayesian
02869|Indirect straw incorporation enhances agroecosystem multiservices in a cropping-system-dependent manner: A meta-analysis
   > [no abstract]
02870|GLoN: A Global–Local Framework for Global Agricultural Nitrogen Loss Prediction
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Nitrogen (N) is critical for global crop production, yet its transformations in agroecosystems drive losses via multiple pathways (e.g., NH 3 volatilisation, N 2 O emissions, and nitrate leaching/runoff)
02871|Weed Detection in The Field Environment Based on Faster R-CNN
   > However, adjusting the shooting angle can increase the precision to 97.1%. In real-world conditions, considering all factors, the weed identification precision is 94.3%. The results
02872|Allelic variants of IRKI contribute to photosynthetic efficiency by regulating rubisco activase in Populus
   > [no term] Abstract Photosynthesis directly determines plant biomass accumulation by controlling carbon flow and energy input. Thus, increasing photosynthetic efficiency is a promising approach for boosting plant growth and yield. However, the
02873|Causal-inspired learning-based method for unbiased pest recognition
   > [no abstract]
02874|Advanced applications of electronic nose technology in grain storage and cereal product quality: A comprehensive review of freshness monitoring and my
   > [no abstract]
02875|Elongate dendritic phytoliths as indicators for cereal identification and domestication: exploring a 3D morphometric approach
   > [no term] Introduction: The phytolith (plant silica) morphotype, Elongate dendritic, is used to indicate the presence of domesticated grasses (cereals) from the Pooideae subfamily, such as wheat and barley, in the archaeological
02876|Forecasting impacts of Agricultural Production on Global Maize Price [Prévision des impacts de la production agricole sur les prix mondiaux du maïs]
   > year in Northern America negatively impact the world price while production of other regions have weak or no influence. We find that TBATS is the
02877|From Phenology Index to Sampling Confidence Indicator: An Efficient Strategy for Large-scale, Long-term Crop Sampling and Mapping
   > [no abstract]
02878|Characterizing the Immune Response in Pig-to-Human Heart Xenografts Using a Multimodal Diagnostic System
   > and injury repair. This phenotype was absent in all control pig hearts independent of ischemia/reperfusion injury and brain death. CONCLUSIONS: Multimodal phenotyping of pig-to-human heart
02879|Hybrid CNN Vision Transformer Framework with Grad-CAM and SHAP Analysis for Urban Change Detection
   > [no term] To track land use and land cover transformation in Makkah, techniques that allow steep relief, spectral confusion, and dense sacred–commercial mosaics, and can be justified in terms of planning, should
02880|Policy-Driven Transformation of Labor-Intensive Cash Crops-The Case of Daylily in Farming-Pastoral Ecotone in Northern China
   > [no abstract]
02881|AI-Driven Approaches for Medicinal Plant Leaf Analysis: A Comprehensive Review
   > accuracy and 92.85% F1-score. Persistent challenges including data scarcity, inter-species morphological overlap, domain shift, and model transparency are discussed, along with emerging research directions in
02882|PhytoNB: AI-enabled Nanobody Design in Plants
   > Extensible applications of this platform include multi-epitope targeting, multi-specific binder design, and cross-species applications.
02883|Modeling and Simulation of Planing-Hull Watercraft Outfitted with an Electric Motor Drive and a Surface-Piercing Propeller
   > of equilibrium trim for planing hull modeling. Simulations were conducted using full-scale real-world conditions for a high-speed small craft developed for leisure and sporting activities,
02884|Development of algorithm for early detection of tobacco diseases in Iraq with wavelet and deep learning technology
   > tobacco leaf image data so that the infected leaves are identified in different regions of Iraq with high accuracy after completing the process of classifying
02885|Deep Learning Based Semantic Segmentation of Satellite Imagery for Land Cover Classification
   > structures such as roads, the computational cost of hybrid transformer-based models, limited cross-dataset generalization, and the scarcity of densely annotated data. The survey concludes by outlining
02886|Early detection of strawberry and grape diseases under real-world field conditions using deep learning
   > as strawberries and grapes. Early and reliable detection of these diseases under real-world conditions is essential but remains challenging due to variations in environment, illumination,
02887|Validation of Early Vineyard Yield Estimation
   > level wine grape yield estimation in the Douro Demarcated Region (DDR), comparing Leave-One-Year-Out (LOYO) validation with Walk-Forward (WF) back-testing. The modelling workflow combines Sentinel-derived Normalised … model comparison, whereas WF provides a more operationally realistic assessment of temporal generalisation. By making this distinction explicit, the study strengthens the methodologi
02888|A Review On Animal Detection Using Different Detection Techniques
   > [no term] Detecting the animals is an imperative task in the field of computer vision. The computer vision plays a prominent role in detection of various wild animals. Methods for animal detection
02889|AD-DETR: A Real-Time Transformer with Multi-Scale Alignment and Spatial–Spectral Fusion for Crop Disease Detection
   > deep learning has advanced plant disease detection, existing models often struggle with generalization across heterogeneous environments and real-time deployment constraints, hindering their practical application in … 230-242 frames per second. These results indicate that AD-DETR is robust to domain shift and suitable for resource-constrained applications, such as real-time monitoring on mobile
02890|Predicting county-level winter wheat yield in Eastern China using multi-source spatiotemporal data: An explainable machine learning approach
   > [no abstract]
02891|LDDNet: A Custom Inception Layer-Based CNN for Enhanced Leaf Disease Detection in Precision Agriculture
   > efficient multi-scale feature extraction and Global Average Pooling (GAP) layers to improve generalization and reduce overfitting. The model was trained and evaluated using the PlantVillage … of 97.54% and an F1-score of 96.13%, with enhanced robustness under varied real-world conditions. The custom Inception layer allows LDDNet to effectively capture varying disease
02892|Wild rice kernel inspection using a prompt-guided vision language model with evidence-grounded reasoning
   > [no term] Reliable wild rice inspection requires not only accurate defect classification but also transparent evidence supporting each diagnostic decision. However, conventional deep learning classifiers generally provide only class labels, while general-purpose
02893|Impact of target domain integration on unsupervised anomaly detection in hydroponic agriculture
   > [no abstract]
02894|Exploring Presence/Absence Variations in Barley for Agronomic Trait Improvement
   > [no term] Presence/absence variations (PAVs), a form of structural genomic variation, play a critical role in shaping phenotypic diversity in plants, including crop species like barley ( Hordeum vulgare ), which serves
02895|Early-season crop mapping of alfalfa using phenological-based spectral analysis of Sentinel-2 time series
   > [no abstract]
02896|iProm-Yeast: Prediction Tool for Yeast Promoters Based on ML Stacking
   > the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) was 0.98. We also performed a cross-species analysis to determine the generalizability of iProm-Yeast across other species. Conclusion: iProm-Yeast is a robust method for
02897|ANIMAL GAZING DETECTION USING CNN IN SMART AGRICULTURAL FIELD
   > the presence of such animals before they encroach upon farming territories. Across different regions, the deployment of these systems aims to mitigate Animal Vehicle Collisions
02898|Integrating UAV-Based RGB Imagery with Semi-Supervised Learning for Tree Species Identification in Heterogeneous Forests
   > training under conditions of limited sample size. Notably, introducing unlabeled data from external sites enhances the accuracy and cross-site generalization of models trained on diverse datasets, achieving impressive results with F1, mAP50, and mAP50-95 scores
02899|A Novel Machine Learning Approach for Cotton Yield Prediction
   > on three southern states: Texas, Mississippi, and Georgia. For each state, three different locations in the cotton-producing counties were chosen. Weather data from 2017 to
02900|Soybean Field Weed Segmentation and Prescription Map Generation Based on SCG-UNet Fusion of UAV RGB and Multispectral Images
   > 0.29% and an F1-score of 80.06 ± 0.40%, indicating stable performance across different regions of the same field. SCG-UNet also achieved the highest numerical mIoU
02901|Artificial intelligence in imaging flow cytometry
   > Although this approach requires clear morphological manifestations in the malignant cells, its generalization is possible. Generalization is facilitated when there is a morphological similarity between the specimens used … and are likely to drive further advances in this field in the future years.
02902|Vegetation Greenness Trend in Dry Seasons and Its Responses to Temperature and Precipitation in Mara River Basin, Africa
   > is home to many wild animals. However, the basin is experiencing vegetation degradation and bad climate change, which has caused conflicts between people and wild … change trend of rising temperature and falling precipitation will lead to the degradation of vegetation and the reduction of crop production. There will be a vegetation degradation crisis in dry seasons in the Mara River Basin in the f
02903|Digital Convergence in Agriculture: A Review and Integrative Framework for Emerging Technologies
   > [no abstract]
02904|A wetland permanence classification tool to support prairie wetland conservation and policy implementation
   > and ephemeral wetlands. Our approach is applicable elsewhere in the PPR and other regions with variation in wetland permanence.
02905|AgroBench: A Reproducible Multimodal Benchmark for Weakly Supervised Crop Yield Learning from County Statistics and Pixel Observations
   > facilitate standardized evaluation, we establish a crop yield prediction benchmark using a Leave-One-Year-Out evaluation protocol and provide baseline results using representative machine learning models. By
02906|Improving crop residue cover estimation using spectral shape information from multispectral remote sensing
   > 2 = 0.62, RMSE = 6.73%). Moreover, most proposed indicators exhibited improved transferability across independent datasets and were less affected by soil background and crop moisture than
02907|Prediction of agricultural drought in Chile from multiple spatio-temporal data sources
   > combined in a single spatio-temporal model. Both approaches were evaluated with a leave-one-year-out cross-validation procedure. Both methods showed good prediction accuracies for small lead times
02908|Artificial Intelligence in Agriculture: Bridging Accuracy, Labour Challenges and Farmer Knowledge Gaps
   > study analyzes current AI applications in agriculture and evaluates their effectiveness in real-world conditions. It also highlights the need for policy support, farmer training, and
02909|A Self-Supervised Foundation Model for Robust and Generalizable Representation Learning in STED Microscopy
   > specialized fields like biomedical imaging and fluorescence microscopy remains difficult due to distribution shifts and the scarcity of high-quality annotated datasets. The high cost of
02910|Echocardiographic phenotyping of the continuum of myocardial functional remodelling in left ventricular hypertrophy - machine learning validated with 
   > function. Regression was used to estimate the echo and clinical characteristics of different regions in the space. Results The ML analysis of HCM and relative
02911|Animal Detection In Farmlands Using Artificial Intelligence And IoT: A Case Study Of Thalavady Region, Erode District
   > [no term] Agriculture remains the backbone of the Indian economy, providing livelihood for a large portion of the population. However, farmers living near forest boundaries frequently experience severe crop losses due to
02912|STEFTR: A Hybrid Versatile Method for State Estimation and Feature Extraction From the Trajectory of Animal Behavior
   > flies, rats, and bats in the laboratories, and penguins and flying seabirds in the wild, which were recorded with various methods and span a wide
02913|Quantifying and Mitigating Domain Shift in Peach Leaf Damage Classification: Attention Mechanisms and Fine-Tuning Strategies
   > covering six damage types was assembled from public sources, and a second, independently acquired dataset of 180 field images across four classes was collected in a commercial orchard as an unseen target domain. Eleven convolutional backbones and three attention-enhanced variants were compared; CBAM-EfficientNetB5 achieved … best source-domain performance (93.3\% accuracy, 0.849 macro F1). Applied
02914|Hyperspectral Imaging for Agricultural and Food Sensing: Applications, Data Analytics, and Deployment Challenges
   > cost, and operational complexity. We therefore discuss instrument-aware calibration and preprocessing, model generalization, lower-cost sensing, and deployment strategies that may improve reproducibility and field applicability.
02915|Sim-to-Real GPR-Based Subsurface Sensing: Physics-Guided Hierarchical-Domain Adaptation With Deep Adversarial Learning
   > simulations can be leveraged to train data-driven models. Nevertheless, discrepancies between simulated (source domain) and real-world (target domain) data introduce a significant domain gap, leading to performance degradation in practical deployment. This study proposes a physics-guided hierarchical-domain adaptation framework with deep adversarial learning to enable robust sim-to-real subsurface
02916|Discriminating conventionally and wild-simulated cultivatedAstragalus membranaceus using functional compounds, stable isotopes and multielement fusion
   > [no abstract]
02917|CMB-SSPNet: A multimodal deep learning framework for predicting vegetable antiviral protein structures
   > [no abstract]
02918|The Analysis of Infectious Diseases via Machine Learning
   > [no term] This thesis introduces two projects applying machine learning methods to the realm of bioinformatics. In Chapter 1, we look at a regression problem involving the parameter values associated with the
02919|Application of Artificial Intelligence and Deep Learning in Remote Sensing Image Analysis for Natural Resource Monitoring and Management
   > is compared in terms of methodology, sensor modality, and reported performance. A generalized processing workflow and an integrated cross-domain conceptual framework are proposed to guide the design of operational AI-based monitoring systems; unlike prior single-domain reviews, this synthesis is explicitly cross-domain, linking architecture choice to operational constraints shared across land cove
02920|Hyperspectral remote sensing analysis of leaf pigment and structural parameters based on deep learning
   > these methods are limited by poor scalability, spectral overlap issues, and weak cross-species generalization. This study investigates the feasibility of estimating multiple leaf parameters using hyperspectral … fusion to effectively capture spectral patterns and inter-parameter correlations. The model is trained on integrated AQGRAD (53 species) and LOPEX (45 species) datasets, covering hyperspec
02921|Integrative Multi‐Omics Analysis of Stem Growth Habit Divergence in Wild Soybean ( Glycine soja )
   > [no term] Stem architecture is a major determinant of lodging resistance, biomass accumulation, and harvest efficiency in soybean. However, the molecular features associated with contrasting stem growth habits in wild soybean remain
02922|Evolutionary characteristics of intergenic transcribed regions indicate widespread noisy transcription in the Poaceae
   > activity of novel genes or noisy expression. To address this, we evaluated cross-species and post-duplication sequence and expression conservation of intergenic transcribed regions (ITRs) in
02923|CTGNN: UAV-satellite cross-domain transfer learning for monitoring oat growth in China’s key production areas
   > observational capabilities, conventional crop monitoring models face two critical limitations: (1) the independent retrieval of individual physiological traits, which overlooks the dynamic coupling between structural and physiological traits, and (2) inadequate cross-platform model transferability (e.g., from UAV images to satellite images), hindering the scaling of field-level … CTGNN significant
02924|Genotypic screening for the resistance of leguminous crops to the effects of heavy metals, based on neuron profiling of their amino acid exudation
   > cadmium and cobalt to the medium had a greater effect on the decrease in the biomass of the wild line SGE than in the mutant … profile obtained on zinc and mercury in both genotypes into a separate independent group. The results of calculations using a neural network confirmed the resistance
02925|Ecological restoration for mega-infrastructure projects: a study based on multi-source heterogeneous data
   > the demand for ecological restoration. Design/methodology/approach Based on the principle of complexity degradation, this research collects and brings together multi-source heterogeneous data, including meteorological station … classification decisions. The ecological restoration technologies and restoration plant species suitable for different regions are generated. Findings This research can eff
02926|Automated calibration of stomatal conductance models from thermal imagery by leveraging synthetic images generated from Helios 3D biophysical model si
   > traits and environmental conditions but also enables the prediction of gs in new environments. The methodology involved using simulated thermal imagery data generated from a
02927|Show me your neighbour and I tell what you are: fisheye transformation for deep learning-based single-cell phenotyping
   > [no term] Abstract Recently we have concluded that image-based features derived from the microenvironment have an enormous impact on successfully determining the class of an object 1 . Here we demonstrate that
02928|Analysis of the distribution of Astragalus membranaceus var. mongholicus in Inner Mongolia under climate change using the GEE platform
   > notable reductions. Particularly, under the SSP126 scenario (2081–2100), there is a significant decrease of 22.77% in suitable habitat. The SSP245 scenario (2041–2060) exhibits the most
02929|Integrating meteorological insights and machine learning for sugarcane yield prediction in South Gujarat
   > 8.55%. SMLR demonstrated strong performance in Navsari but required further optimization in other regions. RFR and SVR showed mixed results, with significant errors in Surat
02930|A dataset for computer-vision-based fig fruit detection in the wild with benchmarking you only look once model detector
   > existing data for the identification of figs in their natural habitats, specifically in the wilderness. In the present study, researchers have generated numerous image datasets
02931|PlantC2USeg: Cross-Scale Consistent Pre-Training for Few-Shot Unified Plant Point Cloud Segmentation
   > reconstruction shortcuts and promotes robust adaptation. The resulting pre-training enables stable few-shot generalization across species and sensing conditions, while unified fine-tuning with inherited thresholds further … agricultural domains. These results demonstrate that PlantC2USeg reduces overall adaptation effort under distribution shifts, enabling scalable plant phenotyping and transferab
02932|Trustworthy AutoML indicators for climate-smart agriculture: A sustainability-governance framework for decision support
   > indicator suite covering decision linkage, data provenance, leakage-aware validation, uncertainty and calibration, spatial–temporal transferability, explainability, resource and lifecycle cost, equity, privacy, human oversight, monitoring, and
02933|A novel dual-branch spatial-spectral attention fusion model and method: A case study for the detection of nicotine content in tobacco leaves
   > [no abstract]
02934|An Explainable Hybrid Attention Based TabNet–BiLSTM Framework for Intelligent Soil Data-Driven Crop and Fertilizer Recommendation
   > preprocessing pipeline included missing values handling, feature normalization, categorical encoding and stratified data partitioning. Model performance was evaluated through stratified five fold cross validation. Experimental
02935|Adapting a Globally-Trained Plant Identification Model for Multi-Species Detection of Invasive Alien Plants in Roadside Imagery
   > high-resolution multi-species imagery. In this work we adapted the Pl@ntNet global model, trained on millions of images, to detect multiple invasive species in roadside imagery (Espitalier et al. 2025). Pl@ntNet uses a Vision Transformer trained on 6.6 million images covering 43,683 species. Optimized for single-species classification from … hundreds of overlapping patches at multiple zoom levels.
02936|Improved PIRT Methodology Integrating Random Forest and Genetic Algorithm
   > [no abstract]
02937|Leveraging external atmospheric conditions to enhance the drought predictability over the Vietnamese Mekong Delta
   > accurate prediction to enhance preparedness and management. Yet, the potential role of external atmospheric conditions from precipitation source regions in improving drought prediction remains underexplored. … Long- and Short-term Time-series Network (LSTNet), were employed to assess whether incorporating external atmospheric variables enhances drought prediction in the VMD. The ConvGRU model trai
02938|An integrated regionalization framework for incorporating flood seasonality into agricultural flood risk assessments
   > critical but often overlooked component in damage estimation. This study introduces a generalizable regionalization framework that combines hydrological clustering and machine learning to incorporate seasonal … Po River District (Italy) for illustrative purposes, is scalable and adaptable to different regions, contributing to more robust and context-sensitive adaptation planning in agriculture. Re
02939|Hyperspectral signature-band extraction and adaptation for sugar content prediction on Ziziphus mauritiana and Syzygium samarangense
   > This study presents a feature-based domain adaptation model for refining sugar content prediction using eight signature bands extracted … limitations, reducing data dimensionality and acquisition complexity. However, the neural network models trained on signature-band datasets showed limited accuracy in predicting the sugar content of Ziziphus mauritiana and Syzygium samarangense . A domain adapta
02940|Predicting the Potential Distribution of Crataegus azarolus L. under Climate Change in Central Zagros, Iran
   > [no term] Global climate change has had a significant impact on biodiversity and altered the geographical distribution of many plant species. In this study, the ensemble modeling based on seven species distribution
02941|Automatic vineyard health control: A review of existing systems and datasets for disease identification
   > important differences between controlled laboratory datasets and field-acquired imagery that affect model generalizability. The restricted generalizability is documented by training an EfficientNet-B2 classifier on controlled-background PlantVillage images and testing it on an independent dataset of field-acquired images. Although the model achieved 99.61 ± 0.17% accuracy on the internal test set,
02942|Stereo Vision-Based Vehicle Distance Estimation with a Two-Stage Deep Learning Approach
   > Unreal Engine 5.4 is simulation tool is highly realistic and closely mimics real-world conditions, while being significantly cost-effective and more time-efficient to produce compared to collecting labeled data manually in real-world conditions. A drone-mounted stereo camera system with an 80 cm baseline captured … The f irst stage uses YOLOv11 for vehicle detection, and it was trained on this syn
02943|PestDetectSim: an integrated approach for crop pest diagnosis using object detection and similarity-based image retrieval
   > Furthermore, a prototype smartphone application was developed to validate its practicality in real-world conditions. This application allows users to capture pest images, receive instant detection
02944|High-Resolution Daily Net Ecosystem Exchange (NEE) Estimation over Rice Paddies Using Machine Learning and Multi-Source Satellite and Meteorological D
   > [no abstract]
02945|New Insights into Genomic Variations and Mutational Events Associated with Plant–Pathogen Interactions
   > [no term] Plant diseases threaten global food security, causing up to 40% crop yield losses and more than $220 billion in annual economic damage. This review synthesizes recent advances in understanding the
02946|Plant and disease classification with explainable AI in web-based application
   > public sources, covering 10 plant species and 27 disease classes with diverse real-world conditions. The training process was done using two different approaches: with and
02947|Soil knowledge-guided multi-task transformer model for predicting soil properties and crop traits with early warning alerts
   > manual feature extraction. By embedding soil knowledge, KGMT improves prediction accuracy and generalization over PLSR and baseline multi-task models. Data from two agricultural plots in … (0.57) compared to PLSR (0.46 and 0.40, respectively). The model also enhanced cross-region generalization. Additionally, a soil early warning framework was developed, linking pre-planting soil conditions
02948|IoT Based Surveillance System Using DNN Model
   > [no term] Abstract: Localization, Visibility, Proximity, Detection, Recognition has always been a challenge for surveillance system. These challenges can be felt in the industries where surveillance systems are used like armed forces,
02949|Benchmarking farm-level cotton water productivity using on-farm irrigation measurements and remotely sensed yields
   > and WP benchmarking. We also examined: 1) if the yield model is transferable to unseen years and 2) if sub-field-scale yield data from a harvester over a … but highlight the potential risk of reduced accuracy of yield prediction in future years. • Cotton yield was predicted using Landsat 8 and machine learning.
02950|Interpretable Multi-Year Winter Wheat Mapping with Sentinel-1/2 Time Series: SHAP-Based Feature Selection and Bayesian-Optimized Machine Learning
   > winter wheat mapping is important for interannual planting-area monitoring, yet models developed independently for each year require repeated sample collection, feature selection, and parameter tuning. This study developed an interpretable cross-year transfer approach for winter wheat mapping in the Tailan River Irrigation District, … features supplied complementary structural and backscatter info
02951|Tandem kinase proteins and kinase-fusion architectures in plant immune system
   > [no term] Tandem kinase proteins (TKPs) and kinase fusion proteins (KFPs) have emerged as a major class of intracellular immune receptors that complement classical pattern-recognition receptors (PRRs) and nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat (NLR)
02952|Decreased content of ascorbic acid (vitamin C) in the brain of knockout mouse models of Na+,K+-ATPase-related neurologic disorders
   > acid (ASC or vitamin C) transporter, SVCT2. The α2α3-dKO brain showed significantly decreased level of ASC compared with the wild-type (WT) and single knockout. We … knockout mouse (α3-HT) than in the WT. Interestingly, we observed a significant decrease in the ASC level in the basal ganglia and cerebellum of α3-HT
02953|Domain Adaptation and Active Learning for Fine-Grained Recognition in\n the Field of Biodiversity
   > there are insufficient annotated training samples. Therefore, the\ntopic of transfer learning respectively domain adaptation is particularly\nimportant. In this work, we investigate to what extent unsupervised … Group Normalization in combination with\nWeight Standardization, on the classifier. We discovered that domain adaptation\nworks very well for fine-grained recognition and that the normaliz
02954|On-farm integrated nutrient management (INM) approach aimed at improving productivity of wheat, cluster bean, mustard, and pearl millet, supported by 
   > pearl millet during the years 2021-23. On farm trials were conducted at different locations; Khaliyawas (28.1993° N, 76.7668° E), Dungarwas (28.1955° N, 76.7195° E) and
02955|AI-Based Animal Repellent System for Agricultural Fields Using YOLOv5 and OpenCV for Farmer Safeguard
   > [no term] Abstract—Crop damage from wild and domestic animal intrusions causes significant economic losses, estimated at 20-30% annually in some agricultural regions. This paper proposes a real-time animal re- pellent system utilizing
02956|Explainable Artificial Intelligence for Plant Disease Detection: A Scoping Review of Models, Interpretability, and Real-World Challenges
   > explanation quality. Furthermore, the reliance on limited and curated datasets restricts model generalization under real-world conditions. The review highlights a critical gap between high-performing experimental models and
02957|The Elemental Composition of Land Plants: A Global Database and Meta-analysis
   > [no term] Although plants likely take up all elements present in the soil environment, the elemental composition of land plants remains poorly characterized beyond essential nutrients. A comprehensive global database of plant
02958|Machine Learning Framework for Soil Erosion Risk Prediction
   > runoff, inappropriate land-use practices, deforestation, rapid urbanization, and climate change has significantly degraded fertile topsoil across many regions of the world. Conventional soil erosion assessment … the use of ensemble learning algorithms enhances classification accuracy, model robustness, and generalization ability under different environmental conditions. The framework allows for ea
02959|Feature Selection and Year-Effect Dominance in FTIR Spectroscopy of Olive Oil: Implications for Cross-Year Predictive Stability
   > [no abstract]
02960|A Domain-Adaptive Tree-Crown Detection and Counting Method Based on Cascade Region Proposal Networks
   > differences between feature distributions, bringing great challenges for traditional deep-learning-based methods on cross-regional detection. Moreover, compared with other tasks, tree-crown detection has the problems of … the classifier to learn discriminative features. To solve these problems, we apply domain adaptation (DA) to tree-crown detection and propose a DA cascade tree-crown detection fr
02961|Optimizing CNN-Based Transfer Learning through Fine-Tuning and Adaptive Augmentation for Chili Plant Disease Detection
   > technology through Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) offers an automated solution, implementation in real-world conditions still faces significant challenges such as lighting variations, complex backgrounds, and limited local datasets. This often leads to a drastic decrease in model performance compared to testing in a controlled environment. To address … model robustness. The results of this st
02962|A globally-locally consistent dynamically weighted joint optimization network for few-shot bearing fault diagnosis
   > branches, a global–local consistency constraint is further designed to enhance the model’s generalization ability in few-shot cross-domain tasks. Multiple experiments were conducted on three bearing datasets. The results show that the proposed GLD-JON method outperforms various benchmark models in few-shot cross-domain learning tasks, demonstrating superior generalization ability.
02963|Deep-Learning Analysis of Acoustical Signatures Recorded in Nuclear Reactor
   > recognition of acoustical signals, which were collected from five accelerometers installed at different locations within the nozzle trench area of the Advanced Test Reactor. The
02964|Implementation of a Plant Disease Identification System using the CNN Algorithm and the Web-Based Django Framework
   > using the Django framework and convolutional neural networks (CNNs). The model was trained on a controlled dataset consisting of 57,320 leaf images collected from the … score of 0.79 and a weighted mean F1 score of 0.92. For generalization testing, an uncontrolled (wild) dataset consisting of 223 images collected from online sources was used, resulting in an accuracy of 11%, indicating limited rea
02965|Computer vision and AI-based cell phone usage detection in restricted zones of manufacturing industries
   > diverse array of images with varying foreground and background elements to reflect real-world conditions. Our experimental results demonstrate that YOLOv8 achieves a Mean Average Precision
02966|Deep Learning in Farming: A Systematic Evidence-Weighted Review of Applications, Validation Gaps, and Emerging Frontiers
   > robotic perception. High performance on controlled datasets, however, is frequently reported without external, temporal, or cross-site validation, making practical generalisation difficult to establish: in one widely cited benchmark, disease-classification accuracy fell from
02967|Krishi Prahari: An IoT and ML-Based Framework for Smart Agricultural Threat Detection and Resource Optimization
   > [no term] Agriculture remains the backbone of India’s economy, but it is increasingly vulnerable to a variety of critical threats such as climate variability, crop fires, wild animal intrusions, and poor resource
02968|Drone-based geospatial prediction modeling identifies Fasciola hepatica infection risk in the Cusco Highlands of Peru
   > the PCA-based approach (accuracy = 0.85, sensitivity = 0.75, specificity = 0.86). Spatial cross-validation reduced accuracy and specificity across models but preserved high sensitivity. Probability … humans and sheep. RF and XGB showed the most robust performance under spatial cross-validation, supporting the feasibility of UAV-based approaches for localized F. hepatica risk
02969|Augmenting The Weather: A Hybrid Counterfactual–SMOTE Algorithm for Improving Crop Growth Prediction When Climate Changes
   > [no abstract]
02970|Dual-Stream 2D and 3D-SE-ResNet Architectures for Crop Mapping Using EnMAP Hyperspectral Time-Series
   > 2D-CNN (DSS-2D) and a multi-temporal 3D-SE-ResNet. Model performance was assessed using parcel-level spatial cross-validation to ensure realistic accuracy estimates and reduce spatial autocorrelation bias. The
02971|Mutation of self-binding sites in the promoter of the MrpC transcriptional regulator leads to asynchronous Myxococcus xanthus development
   > [no term] Introduction MrpC, a member of the CRP/Fnr transcription factor superfamily, is necessary to induce and control the multicellular developmental program of the bacterium, Myxococcus xanthus. During development, certain cells in
02972|Cross-Dataset Strawberry Disease Classification from Controlled to African Field Conditions
   > [no abstract]
02973|Segmentation-Guided Quantitative Evaluation of CNN Explanation Fidelity on Out-of-Distribution Chest X-Rays
   > [no abstract]
02974|Nutrient explorer: An analytical framework to visualize and investigate drivers of surface water quality
   > phosphorus. The analytical framework implemented in this application can be applied to different locations and other surface water types to be leveraged by decision makers
02975|Knowledge-Grounded Depth-Controlled Diffusion for Synthetic Augmentation of Plant Disease Imagery
   > [no abstract]
02976|Federated learning with dynamic weighted aggregation for multi-crop disease detection: a hybrid CNN-transformer approach
   > provide their farming information and the uneven distribution of crop diseases across different regions. This paper introduces a federated learning framework that addresses these challenges
02977|Smart Technologies and Artificial Intelligence in Sustainable Viticulture: Applications, Benefits, Barriers and Governance for High-Quality Grape Prod
   > still limit broader adoption in commercial vineyards, including data quality issues, limited transferability across sites and seasons, interoperability gaps, vendor lock-in, and concerns related to
02978|Deep learning for a resilient food system: A global analysis
   > [no abstract]
02979|Weednet-X： a Lightweight Field Weed Detection Algorithm
   > [no abstract]
02980|Adaptive connection line filtering for the image registration of UAV-Based visual and thermal infrared imagery in rice phenotyping
   > [no abstract]
02981|GeneCAD: Plant Genome Annotation with a DNA Foundation Model
   > [no term] Abstract Accurate genome annotation is fundamental to biological discovery, yet identifying gene structures directly from DNA sequence remains a major challenge in complex genomes. We introduce GeneCAD, a sequence-only framework
02982|On-policy actor-critic reinforcement learning for multiple unmanned aerial vehicle exploration
   > in unknown environments, where environments not encountered during training, and we evaluate generalization to such unseen environments. The results showed that the proposed setup can complete the coverage
02983|Guiding principles of AI: application in animal husbandry and other considerations
   > farm management. Disparities in global adoption: AI technology will develop unevenly across different regions due to varying economic and technological capabilities, potentially widening the gap … as varied environmental conditions and management practices, to ensure that AI is generalizable and not limited to the contexts in which it was initially trained.
02984|Multi-Source Perception, Intelligent Decision-Making, and Precision Control for Autonomous Agricultural Systems: A Comprehensive Review
   > strategies, achieving robust high-precision closed-loop regulation. However, several critical challenges persist: limited cross-domain generalization and robustness of perception models under environmental distribution shift, constrained interpretability and trustworthiness of data-driven decision systems, and insufficient adaptability
02985|Forecasting solar power production by using satellite images
   > and system operation measurements. We made solar power generation forecasts for 233 different locations across Slovenia – more extensive research regarding the number of photo-voltaic … power generation data. • We make solar power generation forecasts for 233 different locations.
02986|Machine Learning for Shield-Scale Soil Health Mapping: A Systematic Review
   > improved accuracy over conventional geostatistics by 11–57%. However, 70% of studies lacked spatial cross-validation, only 13% employed explainable AI, and 53% originated from China with
02987|Turning spectra into images improves plant trait retrieval with 2D-CNNs
   > every 1D self-supervised counterpart, including the fine-tuned MAE-1D ($R^2 = 0.641$). Under cross-dataset evaluation all models lost most of their accuracy and none beat the
02988|FrAug: Frequency Domain Augmentation for Time Series Forecasting
   > of the original training data to achieve similar performance to the ones trained on full training data, which is particularly attractive for cold-start forecasting. Finally, we show that applying test-time training with FrAug greatly improves forecasting accuracy for time series with significant distribution shifts, which often occurs in real-life TSF applications. Our code is available
02989|Stomatalia: a deep learning-based platform for quantitative stomata and pavement cell analysis
   > Despite their biological importance, quantifying stomatal and pavement-cell traits remains seldom not generalized, simple, and fast enough . Manual or semi-automated approaches limit large-scale phenotyping … standardise the quantification of stomatal and pavement cell traits. The algorithm was trained on epidermal images of cultivated and wild potato and tomato genotypes grown
02990|CGM-Derived Glucose Phenotyping Reveals Hidden Prediabetes Risk and Reactive Hypoglycemia in Thai Adults with Central Obesity: A Machine Learning Appr
   > Monitoring (CGM) data in Thai adults with central obesity and to examine cross-dataset reproducibility. Methods: Two independent cohorts (discovery n = 104; validation n = 148) of participants enrolled … = 0.791). Conclusion: Three clinically meaningful glucotypes were identified and replicated across independent cohorts and analytical approaches, confirming CGM-based phenotyping as a robust tool 
02991|ANIMAL DETECTION BASED SMART FARMING IN ANIMAL REPELLANT USING AI AND DEEP LEARNING
   > [no term] The integration of artificial intelligence (AI) and deep learning technologies in agriculture has ushered in a new era of precision farming, where innovative solutions are developed to address various challenges.
02992|Cotton Yield Prediction with Gaussian Distribution Sampling and Variational AutoEncoder
   > To evaluate the performance of GD-VAE, we conducted extensive tests under challenging cross-year and cross-district conditions. In the cross-year test in Bahawalnagar, Pakistan, GD-VAE achieved a root mean square error (RMSE) … of 0.65 between the actual and predicted yields. In the more challenging cross-year and cross-district test in Turkey, GD-VAE achieved an RMSE of 46.46 kg/da,
02993|Neutron noise-based anomaly classification and localization using machine learning
   > based on simulated data. In the reported work, the approach was also tested on simulated data. The simulations were carried out in the frequency domain … vibrations. In all those cases, various frequencies were considered and, when relevant, different locations of the perturbations and different vibration modes were taken into account.
02994|Adaptive hybrid potential evapotranspiration (PET) prediction method based on automatic machine learning
   > [no abstract]
02995|Adjusted CBA-Wheat model for predicting aboveground biomass in winter wheat from hyperspectral data
   > [no abstract]
02996|Hybrid Ensemble Learning for TWSA Prediction in Water-Stressed Regions: A Case Study from Casablanca–Settat Region, Morocco
   > a determination coefficient of 0.97—far better than single-model baselines—based on a temporally independent train-test split. Spatial analysis highlighted clear patterns of groundwater depletion linked to … under Morocco’s water sustainability initiatives and can be adapted for use in other regions with similar environmental challenges.
02997|Plant leaf disease recognition using deep dynamic joint adaptation networks based on partially labeled data
   > [no abstract]
02998|Smart Animal Species Detection And Reporting System Using Deep Learning
   > detection and classification.The system utilizes the YOLO (You Only Look Once) model, trained on a comprehensive dataset of both wild and domestic animals.The system categorizes
02999|Rapid detection of maize seed vigor via multi-branch interpretable deep learning integrated with multimodal data fusion optimized by environmental fac
   > [no abstract]
03000|Cafeteria‐style feeding trials provide new insights into the diet and nutritional strategies of the black snub‐nosed monkey (Rhinopithecus strykeri): 
   > [no term] Anthropogenic changes and fragmentation of natural habitats often exert a negative effect on resource availability and distribution, and the nutritional ecology and feeding behavior of nonhuman primates. The goals of
03001|Healthy- Disease Mustard Leaf Set: A Dataset for Mustard Disease Detection
   > enabling vision-based plant disease identification is the lack of a suitable large-scale non-lab dataset. Objectives: The main objective of this study is to introduce Healthy-Disease … classes. To increase the diversity of the images and model’s capacity for generalization, data augmentation is applied on the dataset increasing its size to 5,663.
03002|Innovating saltwater intrusion monitoring: Deep Learning-driven sensor fusion for soil salinity and moisture measurement
   > predict soil pore salinity and volumetric water content (VWC). The model was trained on a laboratory dataset spanning four representative soil types, including SC (clayey … 5.326% for salinity) and showed encouraging performance in a preliminary evaluation on unseen field samples from two coastal sites in Maine (MAPE = 9.185% for VWC, 9.011% for salinity). The proposed framework demonstrates gener
03003|TopoLeaf: A Zero-Shot Visual Anomaly Detection Framework via Stable Feature Dimensionality and Local Persistent Homology for Self-Organizing Agricultu
   > [no abstract]
03004|INTEGRATING CLIMATE VARIABILITY AND SOIL DYNAMICS INTO HYBRID ENSEMBLE LEARNING MODELS FOR ADAPTIVE CROP YIELD PREDICTION IN SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
   > Future work will explore dynamic adaptation to real-time environmental data and regional transferability across diverse agricultural ecosystems.
03005|Deep transfer learning-based estimation of crop fractional vegetation cover at high spatiotemporal resolution using moderate-resolution satellite prod
   > index (VI)-based linear regression models. Results show that the fine-tuned Bi-LSTM model trained on FVC product-derived datasets achieved the highest accuracy (R2 = 0.8799, RMSE = 0.1170), outperforming random forest, XGBoost, and the model trained on PROSAIL simulations and VI-based models. Moreover, the transfer learning approach demonstrated superior spatial transferability across regions comp
03006|Research on Natural Disaster Risk Assessment and Insurance Decision-Making Using EWM-TOPSIS and ARIMA Models
   > the TOPSIS comprehensive evaluation method to determine the extent of disasters in different regions. Additionally, a random forest model was constructed to predict the underwriting … estate developers, the study evaluated the potential benefits of constructing houses in different regions by combining the entropy weight method with the TOPSIS model. The
03007|An improved lightweight grape leaf disease detection algorithm based on deep learning
   > [no abstract]
03008|A deep ensemble learning framework for precision image-level weed classification in paddy fields
   > [no abstract]
03009|Temporal deep learning for satellite-based sugarcane monitoring and cycle age estimation
   > 24 months) across multiple regions. • The Transformer model achieved the best cross-region generalization, highlighting its robustness for operational sugarcane age estimation. Accurate monitoring of sugarcane … preserve class balance and prevent temporal leakage, while model evaluation emphasized spatial generalization across regions using accuracy and F1-macro metrics. Among the evaluated approa
03010|Interpretable Cotton Mapping Across Phenological Stages: Receptive-Field Enhancement and Cross-Domain Stability
   > peak canopy development, and DEM maintained stable information contribution across all stages. Cross-year and cross-region experiments further demonstrated the model’s generalization capability, achieving an mIoU of 82.81% in same-region cross-year evaluation and 74.56% under cross-region transfer. Overall, the proposed segmentation framework improves classification accuracy while explicitly model
03011|Six decades of animal accelerometry: trends, applications, and future directions
   > [no term] The use of animal-borne devices to measure acceleration has yielded insights into animal locomotion, behaviour and energy expenditure. We present the first systematic review of accelerometry on animals, spanning 60
03012|Bridging simulation and reality in subsurface radar-based sensing: physics-guided hierarchical domain adaptation with deep adversarial learning
   > to train data-driven models. A key limitation, however, is that simulated data (source domain) and real-world data (target domain) often follow different distributions, which can cause data-driven models trained on simulations to underperform in real-world scenarios. To address this challenge, this study proposes a novel physics-guided hierarchical domain adaptation framework with deep adversarial
03013|Modern Computational Strategies for Comparative Transcriptomics of Convergent Evolution in Plants
   > [no abstract]
03014|Unsupervised domain adaptation and super resolution on drone images for autonomous dry herbage biomass estimation
   > [no term] Herbage mass yield and composition estimation is an important tool for dairy farmers to ensure an adequate supply of high quality herbage for grazing and subsequently milk production. By accurately
03015|PD-CLIP: A contrastive language-image pre-training framework for zero-shot fine-grained plant disease diagnosis
   > strategy via low-rank adaptation to map multi-scale visual and textual features into independent diagnostic subspaces. To overcome sim-to-real distribution shifts, we developed a composite domain adaptation module integrating Fourier transform-based domain adaptation, real-world anchor data guidance, and entropy minimization. Evaluated through a leave-one-out cross-validation strategy, PD-CLIP dem
03016|Semantic-aware data augmentation with edge priors for PV module defect recognition using EL images
   > [no abstract]
03017|Crop type mapping in the pre-Sentinel era using variable-length Landsat time-series and self-supervised learning
   > and CTL2 - 9 classes) in the pre-Sentinel era. The SITS-BERT model, pre-trained on unlabelled L-SITS data, was fine-tuned on single-year and 3-year datasets and evaluated using past and future years’ data, compared with the model’s training data. The SITS-BERT model achieved … SITS-BERT model finetuned with single-year data outperforms the baseline random forest model trained on single-year fixed-
03018|From Parasitized to Healthy-Looking Ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae): Morphological Reconstruction Using Algorithmic Processing
   > [no term] Background: Parasites cause predictable alternative phenotypes of host individuals. Investigating these parasitogenic phenotypes may be essential in cases where parasitism is common or taxa is described based on a parasitized
03019|Developmental Framework and Umbrella Review of AI-driven Strategies for Hydrogel Microneedles
   > promoting AI-driven innovation and fostering the next generation of hydrogel microneedles through cross-domain synergy and structured translational pathways.
03020|Resolving the Crater-Mound Illusion in Lunar Imagery Using Solar-Aligned Deep Learning
   > adapted ResNet-18 model across a 5-fold stratified cross-validation setup combined with semi-supervised domain adaptation on high-confidence consensus samples. During inference, a 40-pass deep test-time augmentation ensemble evaluates each scene alongside a multi-scale center-crop gating filter to
03021|Degradation-driven reorganization of soil erosion resistance under contrasting management practices in Mollisol agroecosystems
   > [no abstract]
03022|GIS-Based Spatial Analysis and Explainable Gradient Boosting of Heavy Metal Enrichment in Agricultural Soils
   > nonzero for several targets, including HMI (mean R2 = 0.20), indicating partial spatial transferability under conservative validation. SHAP analysis identified humus content and soil acidity
03023|Ginseng Quality Identification Based on Multi-Scale Feature Extraction and Knowledge Distillation
   > and surface defects such as red rust and insect damage, to reflect real-world conditions. Because ginseng has intricate textures, irregular shapes, and unstable lighting, we
03024|Deep Learning Approaches for Predicting Chemotherapy Resistance Biomarkers in Human Tumor Cell Lines
   > [no abstract]
03025|Improving Daily Soil Moisture Simulation for Dry Croplands Across China by Integrating an Irrigation Module into Multi-Source Data
   > [no abstract]
03026|STAR: Soil texture analysis recognizer integrating domain-adaptive transfer learning with NIR spectroscopy
   > lab-based methods, its transition to practical deployment remains limited by constrained model generalization, high dependency on annotated data, and cross-domain inconsistencies. To address these challenges, here we introduce a Soil Texture Analysis … Selective Enhanced Transfer Adaptive Boosting (SETAB) framework to enhance model adaptability under cross-regional and inter-domain imbalance condi
03027|XStack-Net: A stacking-based deep learning framework for robust deepfake detection
   > [no abstract]
03028|Application of drones in pesticide spraying: A review
   > [no term] The use of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), commonly referred to as drones, for pesticide spraying in agriculture has garnered significant interest in recent years due to their potential to enhance
03029|Self-attention based cloud top height retrieval for intelligent meteorological service recommendation
   > [no abstract]
03030|Genome to Phenotype Precision Breeding in Wheat through a Quantitative Systematic Review of 184 Studies on Molecular Technologies for Climate Resilien
   > [no abstract]
03031|A Machine Learning API for Earth Observation Data Cubes Based on openEO
   > use case demonstrates cross-backend interoperability by submitting an identical process graph to independent R and Python backends and comparing predictions and evaluation metrics. Two further
03032|HieraEdgeNet: A Multi-Scale Edge-Enhanced Framework for Automated Pollen Recognition
   > current two-dimensional design cannot directly exploit volumetric Z-stack microscopy and that strong domain shifts between training data and real-world deployments may still degrade performance, which we identify as key directions for future work. By also
03033|Artificial intelligence and infectious diseases: Scope and perspectives
   > simultaneously predicting pathogen identity and antimicrobial resistance from routine microbiology. Prognostic models trained on Electronic Health Records surpass traditional scores in anticipating clinical deterioration or … deployment faces hurdles: high computational and licensing costs, vendor-specific implementation constraints, limited cross-site model transferability, and fragmented governa
03034|SGRA: A Spectro-Geometric Rectification Dual-Attention Transformer for Cross-Domain Building Change Detection
   > remains a critical challenge for urban monitoring, primarily due to the severe domain shift between available training datasets and specific target regions, as well as … of fine-grained structural details in deep feature extraction. This study introduces a cross-domain BCD framework: a spectro-geometric rectification attention (SGRA) network combined with a target-oriented
03035|IoT Aware Polynomial Regressive Ensemble Artificial Intelligence Model for Crop Yield Prediction in Cloud Computing Environment
   > models have achieved higher accuracy by increasing their complexity, their ability to generalize remains limited due to variations in key features across different regions. To address this issue, IoT aware Polynomial Regressive Ensemble AI (IoT-PREAI)
03036|INCREASED CHLOROPLAST OCCUPANCY IN BUNDLE SHEATH CELLS OF RICE hap3H MUTANTS REVEALED BY CHLORO-COUNT, A NEW DEEP LEARNING-BASED TOOL
   > [no term] SUMMARY There is an increasing demand to boost photosynthesis in rice to increase yield potential. Chloroplasts are the site of photosynthesis, and increasing the number and size of these organelles
03037|Systematic analysis of the intersection of disease mutations with protein modifications
   > [no term] BACKGROUND: Perturbed posttranslational modification (PTM) landscapes commonly cause pathological phenotypes. The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) project profiles thousands of tumors allowing the identification of spontaneous cancer-driving mutations, while Uniprot and
03038|Characterizing yield through wheat's perception of chronological progression: a multi-omics plant time warping approach
   > mere genomic prediction models, PTW demonstrates superior performance when predicting yield in unseen environments across 48 year-locations in Europe. The PTW model captures non-linear growth … substantially advance research in climate adaptation strategies for crop production by addressing generalization challenges of predictions to novel environmental conditions.
03039|Artificial intelligence-based cardiac transthyretin amyloidosis detection and scoring in scintigraphy imaging: multi-tracer, multi-scanner, and multi-
   > #4 (53 patients, 99mTc-PYP), and #5 (129 patients, 99mTc-DPD) were used as external centers. ATTR-CM detection and scouring were performed by two physicians in each … of 3215 patients without labels, was employed for retrospective model performance evaluation. Different regions of interest were cropped and fed into the classification model for
03040|A deep learning framework for lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation site prediction using evolutionary feature representation
   > in the BLOSUM62 matrix within a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) architecture for cross-species Khib site prediction. Through systematic optimization, we found that a 43-amino acid … existing methods, achieving notable Area Under the ROC Curve (AUC) values on independent test sets: human (0.913), wheat (0.892), T. gondii (0.893), rice (0.887), Candida
03041|RETRACTED: A framework for plant growth analysis and simulation using data analysis techniques
   > anticipated to provide a solution by analyzing the plant growth percentage in different regions over a period of time. Based on the inferences, we will
03042|Profiling post-COVID syndrome across different variants of SARS-CoV-2
   > based on symptom prevalence, duration, demography, and prior conditions (comorbidities). Using an independent testing sample with additional data (n=140), we investigated the impact of post-COVID … phenotypes per viral variant. The three main clusters were confirmed in an independent testing sample, and their functional impact was assessed. Interpretation Unsupervised analysis identified
03043|Reducing energy use in industrial alkaline electrolyzers with machine learning
   > XGBoost remained a fast nonlinear alternative but was less robust under temporal distribution shifts. The results show that short-horizon separator imbalance prediction is feasible on
03044|Revealing the impact of spatial bias in survey design for habitat mapping: A tale of two sampling designs
   > sites along the midwest of Australia. We validate the map outcomes using spatial cross-validation and demonstrate that spatially balanced ground truthing significantly outperforms preferential sampling
03045|Brazilian Forest Dataset: A new dataset to model local biodiversity
   > enabling researchers to predict the occurrence of specific types of vegetation in different regions of Brazil as well as analyse how the prediction accuracy changes
03046|MRSSC: A BENCHMARK DATASET FOR MULTIMODAL REMOTE SENSING SCENE CLASSIFICATION
   > mountain, desert, coast, lake and river. Our dataset is evaluated by state-of-theart domain adaptation methods to establish a baseline with average classification accuracy of 79.2%. … scene classification between different image sources, and paves the way for a generalized image classification model for multi-modal earth observation data. 
03047|Predicting Irrigation Water Requirements in Data-Scarce Environments Using Machine Learning: A Multi-Site Study in Morocco
   > [no abstract]
03048|Beyond pastures, look at plastic: Using Sentinel-2 imagery to map silage bags to improve understanding of cattle intensity
   > in the last decades, and although pasture expansion is well documented across different regions, there is little understanding of the intensity at which cattle operate
03049|Stacked enviromic–genomic models improve prediction of genotype performance in new environments
   > predictive ability of genomic selection in untested environments. We propose a Stacked Generalization framework that integrates linear mixed models (factor analytic and genomic best linear … on large multi-environment trials of maize and rice, under scenarios that simulate new environments and seasons. The genetic covariance structures differed between crops, requiring a
03050|A pan-CRISPR analysis of mammalian cell specificity identifies ultra-compact sgRNA subsets for genome-scale experiments
   > be lethal to one human cell type while increasing growth rate in another. This context specificity confounds genetic analysis and prevents reproducible genome engineering. Genome-wide
03051|Whole-genome sequencing revealed the genomic origin of Solanum demissum Lindl., a Mexican hexaploid wild potato species
   > [no term] BACKGROUND: Solanum demissum Lindl. (2n = 6x = 72) is the most popular wild species in potato breeding because of its resistance to late blight, caused by Phytophthora infestans (Mont.)
03052|A Deep Learning-Based System for Prawn Hepatopancreas Identification Based on Image Classification with Interpretability
   > [no term] Accurate identification of the hepatopancreas is essential for prawn quality assessment and automated seafood processing. This study presents an explainable deep learning framework for the binary classification of prawn images
03053|Rhizomicrobiomics
   > [no term] Abstract Rhizomicrobiomics is the study of plant-associated microbes as a strategy for achieving sustainable development goals. With the development of the concept of microbiomes of soil/plant systems, the history leading
03054|Causal Representation Learning for Cyber-Physical Systems Engineering Systems in Kenya: Out-of-Distribution Benchmarking and Error Analysis
   > Cyber-physical systems deployed in Kenyan critical infrastructure operate under distribution shifts that are poorly represented in conventional machine learning benchmarks. We define … an error taxonomy that distinguishes representation error, causal mechanism error, and system-level generalisation error, each with distinct diagnostic signatures and mitigation strategies. We analyse how
03055|The AI vantage: an exposition of global dynamics
   > the extent to which AI has been adopted across various domains in different regions of the world. Specifically, this study seeks to explore the effectiveness
03056|Detecting Selective Sweeps in the Genomic Era: From Classical Statistics to Deep Learning
   > the technically demanding challenge of sweep detection in ancient DNA by incorporating domain adaptation, which actively corrects for systematic discrepancies between simulated training data and … sequencing datasets expand across diverse taxa, the continued development of demographically aware, transferable deep learning frameworks will be central to unlocking the genetic basis of
03057|Seasonal agricultural vulnerability in semi-arid Morocco: combining remote sensing and farmer knowledge to inform climate adaptation
   > multinomial logistic regression and majority-class baselines. While standard cross-validation yielded optimistic estimates, spatial cross-validation produced more conservative and policy-relevant results. Under spatial validation, Random Forest … access, irrigation practices, and climate information use. The proposed framework offers a transferable approach for assessing climate vulnerability and 
03058|Supervised Domain Adaptation Mitigates Cross-Ethnicity Prediction Error in Neuroimaging-Based Cognitive Prediction
   > cognitive and clinical outcomes from neuroimaging data, yet challenges in fairness and generalizability remain. Large-scale datasets are often racially and ethnically imbalanced, leading to systematic … represented in the training data. In this study, we evaluated whether supervised domain adaptation methods—including balanced weighting, two-stage TrAdaBoost, feature augmentation with SrcOnly pred
03059|A Landsat-Based Framework for Long-Term Mapping of Topsoil Sand Content in Croplands
   > Topsoil sand content (TSC) is a critical indicator of soil degradation in black soil regions, yet its long-term dynamics remain poorly quantified. To … and a root mean square error (RMSE) of 9.68%, together with satisfactory temporal transferability. Long-term mapping revealed a significant biphasic evolutionary trajectory: 23.4% of croplands
03060|Rapid Evaporative Ionization Mass Spectrometry (REIMS): a Potential and Rapid Tool for the Identification of Insecticide Resistance in Mosquito Larvae
   > [no term] Abstract Insecticide resistance is a significant challenge facing the successful control of mosquito vectors globally. Bioassays are currently the only method for phenotyping resistance. They require large numbers of mosquitoes
03061|Pseudoreplication and Session-Level Variability in CAN-Bus Tractor Telemetry: Mixed-Effects and Machine-Learning Analysis
   > [no abstract]
03062|Lightweight efficient channel attention network for cross dataset white blood cell classification
   > microscope settings, and dataset curation. To address this limitation, this study investigates cross-dataset robustness using two widely used WBC datasets, PBC-Normal and Raabin-WBC, together with … and processed, cropped and unprocessed, and cropped and processed. The model is trained on 224 × 224 RGB images using AdamW optimization and cosine learning-rate
03063|Key Factor Extraction Method of Agricultural User Demand Based on Large Language Models
   > from Transformers (BERT) as well as general-purpose large language models (LLMs) without domain adaptation. The findings confirmed the critical role of domain knowledge injection, explicit … each component. Removing domain pretraining or LoRA fine-tuning resulted in substantial performance degradation in classification and key-factor extraction, indicating the necessity of domain adaptation and ta
03064|Crop row lines detection for rapeseed seedlings in complex environments based on improved BiSeNetV2 and dynamic sliding window fitting
   > [no abstract]
03065|Label-free imaging and machine learning reveal cyclin-dependent kinase 6 (CDK6)-regulated metabolic phenotypes and beige potential in single preadipoc
   > [no term] Cyclin-dependent kinase 6 (CDK6) regulates adipogenesis and beige fat formation, but its role in preadipocyte metabolism is unclear. The mouse embryonic fibroblast cell line 3 T3-L1 is a well-established preadipocyte
03066|Cross domain fault diagnosis of small modular reactor using sample synthesis and transfer learning with attention mechanism
   > [no abstract]
03067|Retinoic Acid Induced 1 and Smith–Magenis Syndrome: From Genetics to Biology and Possible Therapeutic Strategies
   > Lysine 4 (H3K4) writer complex, and a regulator of faulty 5′-capped pre-mRNA degradation. Alterations of RAI1 functions lead to synaptic scaling and transcriptional dysregulation in
03068|Improving Production Performance Through Multi-Plant Cross Learning
   > through multi-plant comparison and learning among identical or similar production lines in different locations by leveraging the information stored on factory cloud. In this work,
03069|Data analytics and machine learning for digital transformation in mineral processing: A conceptual framework for copper-molybdenum concentration
   > for SAG mill bearing health monitoring achieved 87% probability of detection for degradation events 24-48 hours in advance, with projected reductions in unplanned downtime of … emergency maintenance events of ~70% relative to reactive baselines in the literature. Cross-domain synergies between the integrated models are expected to generate additional value beyond
03070|Spatially asynchronous changes in strength and stability of terrestrial net ecosystem productivity
   > exchanges during net uptake (U) and release (R) periods (i.e., U/R). The cross-site variation of mean annual NEP can be linearly indicated by ln(U/R), while
03071|Interpretable multi-sensor mapping of coffee production systems in Dak Lak, Vietnam: performance, spatial generalization, and uncertainty
   > Additive exPlanations (SHAP)-based interpretation. Spatial block cross-validation, the more demanding test of transferability in which training and validation blocks are geographically separated by 10-20 km, yielded coffee-subclass macro F1-scores of only 0.141-0.374, revealing limited ability to generalize the three-way coffee-system classification beyond reference-represented landscapes. By cont
03072|ENHANCING COFFEE LEAF DISEASE DETECTION WITH RMFA-CNN: A REAL-TIME MULTI-FEATURE DEEP LEARNING FRAMEWORK
   > Arabica coffee leaf datasets, namely JMuBEN and JMuBEN2, which were acquired under real-world conditions at the Mutira coffee plantation in Kirinyaga County, Kenya. Experimental results
03073|A Comprehensive Review on Image-Driven Seed Germination Prediction Using Machine Learning Techniques
   > large-scale access is restricted by the non-standardisation of datasets, the lack of cross-crop and real-field assessments, and practical constraints on energy efficiency, maintenance costs, and
03074|Tracking long-term wetland dynamics based on sample migration and two-stage hierarchical classification: A case study of Jiangsu Province
   > [no abstract]
03075|3D reconstruction of neuronal allometry and neuromuscular projections in asexual planarians using expansion tiling light sheet microscopy
   > [no term] Abstract The intricate coordination of the neural network in planarian growth and regeneration has remained largely unrevealed, partly due to the challenges of imaging the central nervous system (CNS) in
03076|Transcriptomic profiling of gill biopsies to define predictive markers for seawater survival in farmed Atlantic salmon
   > [no term] Abstract Wild Atlantic salmon migrate to sea following completion of a developmental process known as parr - smolt transformation (PST), which establishes a seawater (SW) tolerant phenotype. Effective imitation of
03077|Integration of Climate Data and Machine Learning for Cherry Phenological Stages Prediction
   > [no abstract]
03078|Using Deep Learning for Quantifying Bat Flight Maneuvering
   > collection of datastores that the computer learns in order to apply to another video. A network can be a single datastore but for the sake … and field conditions. In lab, learning that the networks needed to be tested on videos that were not used for training in order to see
03079|Drought dynamics and climatic drivers in the Tarim Basin: Remote sensing indices and pixel-wise machine learning
   > [no abstract]
03080|PLGCA-SAM: Progressive local and global context-aware network incorporating SAM for remote sensing crop mapping
   > significant distributional shifts exist across different remote sensing datasets, which limit the generalizability of deep learning models. To address the issue, we propose a semantic … imagery. PLGCA-SAM integrates the contextual perception capability of PLGCA with the powerful generalization of SAM. Specifically, we introduce a task-adaptive encoding (TAE) module, which includes
03081|EDISP: a hybrid CNN-ViT framework for robust maize leaf disease detection and classification
   > strengths of CNNs and ViTs to overcome their individual weaknesses. It is trained on a dataset that includes both controlled-environment and real-field maize leaf images, … augmentation, and stratified splitting into training, validation, and test sets to support generalization. The CNN focuses on detailed local disease features, while the ViT captures
03082|Enhanced Corn Mapping with Height-Spectral Gaussian Mixture Modeling
   > [no abstract]
03083|Development of a zero-shot classification method for cross-regional crop mapping demonstrating domain transferability in Sentinel-2 imagery
   > target region (Karabakh, Azerbaijan) using a single-date Sentinel-2 composite, with the classifier trained on labeled parcels from a data-rich source region (central France). Cross-regional deployment of crop classifiers is impeded by domain shift differences in phenology, management, and sensor-band responses and by the absence of local labels, which together degrade accuracy and trust in operati
03084|Evaluating the Capability of VGG16 Trained on Kaggle Dataset for Detecting Tomato Diseases in Indonesian
   > of the VGG16 convolutional neural network in detecting tomato diseases, particularly when trained on the standardized PlantVillage dataset and applied to local agricultural conditions in … the PlantVillage test set but exhibited a sharp decline 25% accuracy when tested on locally sourced images, highlighting limited generalization capabilities. These findings emphasize the necessity of incorporati
03085|Improving the Accuracy of the Forecast of Electricity Production by Photovoltaic Power Station Based on the Random Forest Method
   > it ensures adaptability to the specifics of energy generation by PPS in different regions of Ukraine and in different periods of the year. To increase … you to effectively take into account the features of energy generation in different regions and during different seasons.
03086|Physics-Informed Domain Adaptation for Stator Inter-Turn Short Circuit Diagnosis in Synchronous Machines Using Excitation Current Signatures
   > Training diagnostic models purely on simulated signals often results in a severe domain shift between the digital twin and the physical machine due to nonlinearities, mechanical noise, and measurement imperfections, causing a significant degradation of performance when the model is deployed in practice. This paper proposes … current. Simulated data from the digital twin are used as a labeled sourc
03087|Deep learning based groundnut and paddy leaf disease classification using dual attention network
   > limited feature discrimination, inadequate attention to disease-affected regions, and reduced performance under real-world conditions. To address these limitations, this research introduces a novel deep learning
03088|How do hydrogeological and socio-economic parameters influence the likelihood of NO3− pollution and Cl− salinization? An application within the campan
   > to safeguard groundwater resources. The protocol here employed can be extended to other regions, assisting policymakers and managers in identifying areas exposed to potential human
03089|Geostatistical Predictive Model of Drought Severity: A Case Study of Southern Portugal
   > Portugal. Furthermore, the methodology presented in this study can be adapted to other regions, making it a versatile approach to addressing drought-related challenges worldwide.
03090|Time Series Forecasting of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Using Deep Learning
   > backtesting, while Monte Carlo Dropout (MCD) was applied to quantify predictive uncertainty. Out-of-distribution (OOD) tests were further used to assess generalization under distributional shifts, and early stopping with learning-rate scheduling was employed to
03091|Systematic review of thermal remote sensing for water status and evapotranspiration assessment in vineyard
   > recurring limitations associated with processing workflows, data calibration, as well as model transferability across sites and conditions. In addition, the need to identify thermal indicators
03092|Sensor-Based Bermudagrass Yield Prediction Models Using Random Forest Algorithm in Oklahoma
   > developed using six bermudagrass cultivars, managed with four N rates, at four different locations, collecting data at 2, 4, and 6 weeks of bermudagrass regrowth
03093|Computational Redesign of an Antifreeze Protein Using Deep Learning
   > [no term] Abstract Antifreeze proteins (AFPs) found in various cold-adapted organisms inhibit ice growth and are of interest for applications in food products, cryopreservation, agriculture, and materials science. Although high-resolution structures are
03094|Differential Diagnosis of Cognitive Disorders using Deep Learning Techniques based on Neuroimaging Data
   > [no abstract]
03095|Can Bolivia Decouple Growth from Extraction? Agriculture, Mining, Forest Loss, Climate Stress, and Adversarial Evidence
   > protected areas, and commodity prices. Identification combines two-way fixed effects, first differences, leave-one-department-out estimates, weak-IV diagnostics, Rademacher and Webb wild-cluster bootstrap, circular-shift and lead placebos,
03096|Deep learning in precision phytopathology: a comprehensive survey of CNN architectures for disease detection and severity quantification
   > drop from laboratory to the field settings due to the problems of domain shift, class imbalance, and long-tail distributions. This paper highlights domain adaptation, few-shot learning, and multimodal fusion as the key techniques to achieve better generalizability. Robotic implementation and explainable AI are also discussed as crucial aspects in
03097|Dual-Stage Deep Learning Framework for Hybrid Coconut Maturity Classification and Harvest Timeline Prediction
   > While the dataset was limited in size and scope, which may affect generalizability, this study introduces the first dual-stage coconut framework that combines classification and … multimodal variables such as weather and soil data, and enhancing robustness under real-world conditions.
03098|Climate change adaptation for livestock production in southern Australia: transdisciplinary approaches for integrated solutions
   > pastures providing low levels of ground cover, thus exposing the soil to degradation through erosion unless stocking rates of livestock are reduced (Moore and Ghahramani, … DBFC project from the the for researchers and regional working to a different location a potential future This was an to the modeling of future
03099|Generic Artificial Intelligent Agent Using Iot And Deep Learning
   > design of many AI agents for specific tasks limits their ability to generalize across different applications and environments. This paper introduces a generic artificial intelligent … to make intelligent, context-aware decisions. Using a combination of initial training and domain adaptation techniques, the agent can learn to recognize patterns and perform tasks
03100|Deep Learning for Food Quality Assessment and Shelf-Life Prediction: A Systematic Review of Modeling Paradigms
   > findings indicate that multi-modal data fusion, attention mechanisms, data augmentation, and appropriate data partitioning can improve prediction accuracy, robustness, and practical applicability, while explainable model … and transparency of model outputs. Persistent challenges remain in data labeling, model generalization, external validation, and deployment under real supply-chain conditions. F
03101|Genomics-assisted breeding and multi-omics approaches for accelerating crop improvement: From genetic diversity to climate-resilient varieties
   > Global agriculture faces challenges due to climate change, extreme weather, resource degradation and population growth. Conventional crop breeding alone cannot achieve the genetic gains
03102|UAV-Based Agricultural Canopy Segmentation from OBIA to Foundation Models: A Systematic Review of Methodological Evolution, Operational Trade-Offs, an
   > the balance among annotation demand, preprocessing complexity, computational cost, environmental robustness, and transferability across agricultural environments. This gap is the rationale for the present review.
03103|A regional, remote sensing-based approach to mapping land degradation in the Little Karoo, South Africa
   > [no abstract]
03104|Estimation of Ebola’s spillover infection exposure in Sierra Leone based on sociodemographic and economic factors
   > predictive model about the spillover risk statistics that can be calibrated for different regions and future times, and (3) to compute a spillover exposure map
03105|Development of a safety system for drivers using recognition of facial expressions in agricultural vehicles
   > [no term] Driving agricultural vehicles often requires prolonged attention and exposure to intense working environments, which makes drivers more susceptible to fatigue, drowsiness, and inattentiveness. This situation results in many agricultural accidents
03106|A Domain-Adapted Lightweight Ensemble for Resource-Efficient Few-Shot Plant Disease Classification
   > by a Transductive LSTM with attention, while remaining lightweight and mobile-friendly. Under real-world conditions using field images from the Dhan Shomadhan dataset, it maintained robust
03107|Advancing fugacity modeling of POPs: Critical evaluation of multimedia frameworks and future pathways
   > [no term] Persistent organic pollutants (POPs) are toxic chemicals that persist in the environment, bioaccumulate in living organisms, and transfer across media such as air, water, and soil. While numerous reviews have
03108|Jnk1 and downstream signalling hubs regulate anxiety-like behaviours in a zebrafish larvae phenotypic screen
   > fish exposed to AA drugs. Using this classifier, we demonstrate that structurally independent JNK inhibitors replicate the AA phenotype with high accuracy, consistent with findings
03109|Association Rule Mining across Multiple Domains: Systematic Literature Review
   > and domain-specific needs. The novelty of this review lies in providing a cross-domain synthesis of ARM, filling the gap left by prior reviews that were … while identifying opportunities such as integration with deep learning, real-time ARM, and cross-domain adaptation. By offering a structured overview of developments in ARM, this study
03110|RAISE-FER: a massive cross-dataset augmented facial expression dataset
   > This data report presents RAISE-FER, a massive cross-dataset augmented facial expression dataset that can be used in social robotics developed … that simulate real-world challenges, forcing the model to learn more robust and generalizable features. However, the application of DA in the FER domain requires special
03111|Integrating context-based recommendation with deep NN image classification for plant identification tasks
   > with a 2.8k class problem. Using a NASNet deep convolutional neural network trained on 860k taxon-labelled plant images we can presently achieve a 82% top-1
03112|Diverse molecular mechanisms of in vivo haploid induction in plants: from fertilization interference to genome programming
   > [no abstract]
03113|Dynamic Changes in and Driving Factors of Soil Organic Carbon in China from 2001 to 2020
   > change. Clarifying the dynamic changes in SOC and their driving factors in different regions of China is therefore crucial for assessing the global carbon cycle.
03114|WILD ANIMAL DETECTION SYSTEM
   > [no term] In forests and agricultural fields, human lives are in danger due to the conflict between human being and animals, which is a severe problem. As a result, individuals suffer losing
03115|A JianDu character restoration method based on cross-domain debiased fourier fusion and parameterized coordinate query
   > stability. To address these issues, we propose a restoration method based on cross-domain debiased Fourier fusion and parameterized coordinate querying. Adaptive parameters are generated only
03116|Predictive Heterogeneity: Measures and Applications
   > machine learning algorithms, the ignorance of data heterogeneity will greatly hurt the generalization performance and the algorithmic fairness, since the prediction mechanisms among different sub-populations … yield prediction and image classification tasks, and leveraging such heterogeneity benefits the out-of-distribution generalization performance.
03117|An explainable vision transformer framework with Poly-Focal loss and Grad-CAM++ for multi-class Alzheimer’s disease classification using MRI
   > [no abstract]
03118|Multi-criterion uncertainty estimation improves skin cancer distribution shift detection and malignancy prediction
   > quickly deteriorates when models are challenged with data from disparate clinical sources. Generalization gaps stem from the high variability in skin lesion images due to … In this study, we apply a novel multi-criterion uncertainty-estimation approach to detect out-of-distribution skin lesion images from four publicly available datasets across five countries. Using our method, Supervised Autoenco
03119|Robust agricultural pest detection under occlusion and environmental variations via AGIIN-MAF training and SAODL adaptation
   > a superior average mAP50 of 74.4% across various environmental conditions, outperforming other test-time adaptation methods. Our contributions include enhancing the model's capability to detect occluded pests and improving its adaptability to unseen environments, which is crucial for effective pest management in agriculture.
03120|Machine learning-based prediction of heavy metal leaching efficiency from zinc metallurgical waste
   > 2 ) of 0.94 for the training set and 0.81 for the independent test set, demonstrating satisfactory generalization to unseen experimental conditions. Integrating data-driven prediction with hydrometallurgical processing provides a quantitative framework
03121|Atmospheric elemental carbon pollution and its regional health disparities in China
   > on total PM2.5 in China over the past decade and a significant decrease in its concentration, changes in EC levels and the associated mortality burden … remained relatively stable since 2005, even as total PM2.5 levels have substantially decreased. Furthermore, we calculated the all-cause non-accidental deaths attributed to long-term EC exposure
03122|Cross-species connectome comparisons reveal the network attributes of memory capacity and time series prediction
   > central nodes are essential for optimal network dynamics; their targeted perturbation significantly degrades performance. Furthermore, functional connectomes from Alzheimer’s disease patients show computational deficits resembling
03123|Forecasting the Number of Harvest-ready Fruits of Sweet Peppers Using Multimodal Time-Series Data
   > Uncertainty Calibration Error (UCE) ranging from 0.39 to 0.89 depending on the cross-season evaluation direction, offering a principled confidence signal for real-world agricultural decision-making. We
03124|Automatic Fault Detection in Photovoltaic Modules Using Infrared Thermography and Deep Learning: A Comprehensive Review
   > models [7], [10]. Findings from the surveyed studies indicate that CNN-based models trained on curated module-level datasets can achieve high detection accuracy, while UAV-based thermographic … labeled data is limited [7]. Nevertheless, several challenges remain, including dataset diversity, domain shifts between different PV plants, class imbalance, annotation complexity, and limitations related
03125|Construction and Evaluation of Lightweight and Interpretable Soybean Remote Sensing Identification Model
   > the robustness of the data-driven window selection. The binary logistic regression model, trained on features from this optimal period, performed excellently: In the 2022 model … it achieved 0.90 overall accuracy and 0.79 Kappa coefficient. When applied to independent validation regions in the same year, it maintained strong performance (0.88 overall accuracy, 0.76 Kappa) without region-specific p
03126|Modelling the distribution of Ekebergia capensis sparrm. (Meliaceae) under the current and future climate change scenarios in Ethiopia
   > replications of five algorithms: BRT (boosted regression trees), RF (random forest), GLM (generalized linear model), GAM (generalized additive model), and Maxent (maximum entropy). Model performance was evaluated using the … (SSP5-8.5) scenario. In the 2070s, the suitable habitats of this species will decrease by 45.44% and 47.14% under SSP2-4.5 and SSP5-8.5, respectively. Ekebergia capensis will
03127|A comprehensive fitness landscape model reveals the evolutionary history and future evolvability of eukaryotic cis -regulatory DNA sequences
   > goal in biology, but have remained elusive because it is challenging to generalize accurately to the vast space of possible sequences using models built on … Sacccharomyces cerevisiae , we construct a deep transformer neural network model that generalizes with exceptional accuracy, and enables sequence design for gene expression engineering. Using
03128|Prediction of soil available nitrogen using machine learning and digital mapping techniques in Northeast India
   > R²v = 0.35, RMSEv = 70.44 kg ha⁻¹ in validation). In contrast, spatial cross-validation resulted in markedly lower accuracy across all models, with R² values
03129|Cross-domain joint learning and shared subspace metric for vehicle re-identification
   > 目的 现有的跨域重识别任务普遍存在源域与目标域之间的域偏差大和聚类质量差的问题，同时跨域模型过度关注在目标域上的泛化能力将导致对源域知识的永久性遗忘。为了克服以上挑战，提出了一个基于跨域联合学习与共享子空间度量的车辆重识别方法。方法 在跨域联合学习中设计了一种交叉置信软聚类来建立源域与目标域之间的域间相关性，并利用软聚类结果产生的监督信息来保留旧知识与泛化新知识。提出了一种显著性感知注意力机制来获取车辆的显著性特征，将原始特征与显著性特征映射到一个共享子空间中并通过它们各自全局与局部之间的杰卡德距离来获取共享度量因子，根据共享度量因子来平滑全局与局部的伪标签，进而促使模型能够学习到更具鉴别力的特征。结果 在3个公共车辆重识别数据集VeRi-776（vehicle re-identification-776 dataset）、VehicleID（largescale vehicle re-i
03130|SpecSpatMamba: an efficient hyperspectral image classification method integrating spectral-spatial dual-path and state space model
   > of dimensionality when processing high-dimensional spectral data, leading to overfitting and poor generalization; (2) existing approaches fail to effectively address spectral band redundancy, resulting in … 98.61 %, 96.97 %, and 91.48 %, respectively. Notably, SpecSpatMamba demonstrates superior cross-dataset consistency and robust performance across diverse geographic environments, with particula
03131|Comparative Analysis of Deep Learning Algorithms for Predicting ENSO Based on Non-sequential Sampling Procedure Algorithms
   > that significantly influences global weather patterns, particularly rainfall and temperature variability across different regions. Accurate ENSO forecasting is therefore essential to support disaster risk mitigation
03132|Machine Learning and Remote Sensing for Gully Erosion Susceptibility Mapping in Southeast Nigeria: Progress, Challenges, and Research Priorities
   > Gully erosion remains one of the most destructive forms of land degradation in tropical environments, threatening agricultural productivity, infrastructure, ecosystem services, and human settlements. … framework integrating Sentinel-1 SAR, Sentinel-2 imagery, Google Earth Engine, ensemble machine learning, spatial cross-validation, and SHAP-based model interpretability is proposed to guide future 
03133|Self-supervised representation learning for robust weed detection
   > that SSL pretraining produces semantically meaningful, collapse-free representation spaces and achieves higher transferability to our downstream task compared to traditional transfer learning from public datasets. In addition, the use of SSL-pretrained models demonstrated robustness to environmental domain shifts and long-tail events.
03134|FCMamba: A frequency-enhanced state space network for edge-based plant disease recognition
   > benchmark, a fine-grained disease confusion setting, a real-world field dataset, and a cross-crop apple dataset. FCMamba achieves 99.20% accuracy on PlantVillage, 81.50% accuracy on field … method improves the discrimination of visually similar disease categories, while field and cross-crop experiments demonstrate its generalization ability under complex practical conditions. Compared with represe
03135|A Dataset-Centric Benchmark of Deep Learning Methods for Grape Leaf Disease Classification and Detection
   > is assessed using accuracy, while detection is evaluated using mAP@50 and mAP@50:95. Cross-dataset experiments further examine transfer between datasets with compatible disease categories but different … on heterogeneous datasets, and substantial variation in detection performance across annotation settings. Cross-dataset performance drops sharply, especially for object detection, indicating that 
03136|A Hybrid Lesion Segmentation and Deep Learning Framework for Intelligent Grape Leaf Disease Classification
   > was tested with standard grape leaf disease datasets and also tested with cross-dataset validation with real field AgroVision data set (collected independently). The proposed framework performed better than the evaluated baseline models, such as … and attention-guided feature learning. Across a new dataset of real-field images acquired independently, with natural environmental variability and clas
03137|GrapePPI: A Deep Learning Framework for Grape Protein–Protein Interaction Prediction Using ESM Embeddings
   > with PR AUC values of 95.29% and 90.87%. GrapePPI also demonstrated strong cross-species generalization, outperforming competing methods on yeast datasets and achieving performance comparable to specialized
03138|Decoding functional genes across species with annotation-independent machine learning
   > methods. To overcome these limitations, we introduce a computational framework that integrates cross-species comparative genomics and machine learning to identify functional genes for shared phenotypes, independent of prior annotation. Our method links orthologous gene group (OG) profiles to … but also guided the experimental validation of three novel essential genes. This annotation-independent s
03139|Computer vision models for precision poultry farming: A narrative review of behavioral and welfare monitoring studies
   > [no term] This narrative review with structured literature screening combines comprehensive research on the rapid adoption of object detection computer vision models, particularly "You Only Look Once" (YOLO), used alone or in
03140|From Detection toward Mitigation: A Critical Review of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning for Methane Emissions Reduction
   > hybrid/physics-guided architectures through a decision-oriented lens: data availability, validation type, uncertainty treatment, transferability, and operational relevance. Tree-based models remain attractive for structured predictors and interpretable … AI/ML is most credible for screening and ranking large, persistent sources, while generalizable quantification of smaller, intermittent, or diffu
03141|AI-Based Predictive Market Pricing Model for Rural Farmers Using Machine Learning
   > [no term] Rural farmers in developing countries still struggle with wild price swings and unclear markets. These issues often leave them at the mercy of middlemen and facing serious financial stress. This
03142|A Large-Scale Assessment of Soil Heavy Metal Pollution Using Field-Collected Earthworms as Bio-Indicators in Shaoguan, South China
   > to more accurately reflect their bioavailability under true environmental conditions than the external exposure dose in soils. The bioaccumulation factor (BAF) exhibited the highest values … ascertain that earthworms are more capable of differentiating heavy metal pollution in different regions than soil alone. Compared to the routine analysis of the total
03143|Robust NOx Emission Prediction Framework for Combined Cycle Power Plant via Parallel GATv2-LSTM
   > denitrification control for combined cycle power plant (CCPP). However, prediction accuracy and temporal transferability are often challenged by various operational conditions of CCPP including dynamic … in terms of prediction accuracy. Moreover, it demonstrates robustness in terms of temporal transferability problems as well as noise. This study offers practical insights for
03144|T-cadherin modulates adipogenic differentiation in mesenchymal stem cells: insights into ligand interactions
   > lipid droplet accumulation relative to T-cadherin. LMW adiponectin suppressed lipid droplet accumulation independently of T-cadherin, while the absence of T-cadherin enhanced susceptibility to the suppressive
03145|Cross-domain offshore wind power forecasting: transfer learning through meteorological clusters
   > general-purpose model, we thus forecast with an ensemble of expert models, each trained on a cluster. As these pretrained models each specialize in a distinct weather pattern, they adapt efficiently to new sites and capture transferable, climate-dependent dynamics. Our contributions are two-fold—we propose this novel framework and comprehensively evaluate it on eight offshore wind farms, achieving
03146|Explainable Artificial Intelligence for Cross-Dataset Generalizable Biomarker Discovery in Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs)
   > a shared expression space while preserving biological signals. Our pipeline integrates 25 independent datasets comprising 983 samples across 23 distinct CVDs phenotypes from both RNA-seq … this study provides a scalable and interpretable road-map that integrates XAI with cross-dataset biomarker discovery, supporting the transition toward precision cardiology.
03147|Rice Leaf Disease Detection using Transfer Learning in InceptionV3
   > deep learning approach which uses a pre-trained model which is trained over another problem and it solves problems of wide domains like Image Processing, Computer
03148|A deep learning framework for comprehensive segmentation of deep grey nuclei
   > deep learning-based segmentation models including SwinUNETR, DiNTS, and SegResNet. All networks were trained on cropped volumes and tested on held-out and out-of-distribution datasets. For T1-weighted MRI, an additional synthesis step was used to generate … of seconds versus tens of minutes using traditional multi-atlas segmentation. THOMASINA also generalized well across field strengths, scanner 
03149|Deep Learning-Based Identification of Pathogenicity Genes in Phytophthora infestans Using Time-Series Transcriptomics
   > cultivars. The framework integrates a biologically informed temporal–attention architecture, a gene time-series-specific data partitioning strategy, and an interpretable deep analysis module. A final methodological contribution
03150|Pest and Host Associations That Transcend Time: Assessing the Impact of Climate Change on Grape Berry Moth ( Paralobesia viteana ) and Its Hosts Vitis
   > [no term] ABSTRACT The grape berry moth (GBM) Paralobesia viteana (Clemens, 1860) (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae) is an important pest of grapes in Eastern North America. The insect is native to this region and
03151|Cutaneous Thermography in Arthropathies: Quantitative Imaging, Machine Learning, and Clinical Translation
   > with clinical, laboratory, and imaging data. Heterogeneity of protocols, variability in measurements, domain shift, validation design, overfitting, and reporting quality are also addressed. Overall, thermography … in arthropathies. However, clinical application at a large scale requires strict standardization, external validation, transparent reporting, and well-elucidated, reproducible analytical
03152|Examining the Effects of Soil and Water Conservation Measures on Patterns and Magnitudes of Vegetation Cover Change in a Subtropical Region Using Time
   > controls. The strategy and method used in this research are valuable for other regions in understanding the roles of different conservation measures on vegetation cover
03153|Computational paradigms for antimicrobial resistance prediction: integrating multi-omics, structural modeling, and foundation artificial intelligence 
   > heterogeneity in dataset scale, frequent reliance on internal validation, limited assessment of cross-site robustness, and vulnerability to distribution shift, particularly for minority resistance phenotypes. We argue that future AMR intelligence
03154|AdaptPest-Net: A Task-Adaptive Network with Graph–Mamba Fusion for Multi-Scale Agricultural Pest Recognition
   > representing a significant improvement over existing methods, while D0 experiments validate strong cross-dataset generalization capability with 99.85% accuracy.
03155|Unraveling non-linear environmental controls on soil organic carbon in arid China: An interpretable machine learning approach
   > [no abstract]
03156|Optimizing Leaf Nitrogen Estimation Using Hyperspectral Sensing and Machine Learning With Band Selection Techniques
   > a large public leaf-level spectral dataset using both repeated random subsampling and leave-one-group-out (LOGO) validation to assess robustness to training set size and transferability under heterogeneous conditions. Results showed that regularized linear models achieved, on these … between 0.27 and 0.30 across different BS scenarios. LOGO experiments indicated moderate transferability across het
03157|Beyond Toy Benchmarks: A Systematic Evaluation of OOD Detection Methods For Plant Pathology Classification
   > Out-of-distribution (OOD) detection is essential for reliable deployment of deep learning systems, yet … optimization on the Plant Pathology 2021 dataset, a fine-grained task with natural distribution shifts. Energy-based fine-tuning performs best across OOD settings, improving detection over the
03158|Safety-Calibrated Out-of-Distribution Prediction via Contrastive Embeddings for Safety-Critical Systems
   > safety-critical systems requires accurate diagnosis of anticipated scenarios and reliable rejection of out-of-distribution (OOD) inputs that fall outside the modeled operational scope. Existing data-driven diagnostic … tuned thresholds that lack enforceable safety guarantees. This article presents SCOPE (Safety-Calibrated Out-of-distribution Prediction via Contrastive Embeddings), a framework inte
03159|Impaired learning, memory, and extinction in posttraumatic stress disorder: translational meta-analysis of clinical and preclinical studies
   > emotional/fearful, and ii) comparability between clinical and preclinical phenotypes. We hypothesized that, cross-species, neutral versus emotional/fearful information processing is, respectively, impaired and enhanced in PTSD. … not humans. Conclusions Impaired neutral learning/memory and fear extinction show very stable cross-species PTSD phenotypes. These could be targeted for novel PTSD treatm
03160|Evaluating the cross-species transferability and scaling of sequence-to-function predictions in AlphaGenome
   > Here, we test performance on mouse data, the other species AlphaGenome was trained on although with fivefold fewer features than human (1,128 versus 5,930). We … near-identical accuracy in mouse and human (AUC 0.96 versus 0.98), displaying no cross-species divergence in predicted effect magnitude. We developed a scoring-approach for AI-agents to
03161|Ai-Driven Detection of Tiny Pests in Foliage: Integrating Image Processing and Deep Learning
   > vision method for detecting insect pests on plant and tree leaves under real-world conditions, combining deep learning with classical image processing techniques. Detecting small, sparsely
03162|An annual 30 m cultivated-pasture dataset of the Tibetan Plateau from 1988 to 2021
   > the Tibetan Plateau over the past several decades, raising concerns about grassland degradation. Accordingly, considerable attention is paid to the protection of Tibetan grassland ecosystems. … was trained using carefully selected training samples and was validated against 2000 independent random reference points in two pilot study regions with different climates and
03163|Deep Learning Approach for Solar Radiation Forecasting in a Tropical Region Using LSTM Networks
   > Hourly radiation data from 2021 to 2022 were used for training, and independent datasets from 2023 to 2024 were used for external validation to ensure long-term assessment and reproducibility. Most existing studies use short … work will integrate satellite information and hybrid deep learning architectures to enhance spatial transferability and long-term forecasting accuracy.
03164|Soybean Productivity, Land Expansion, Climate, and Biotechnology in Bolivia: A Multidomain Adversarial Study with Econometrics, Causal Inference, Caus
   > event studies, synthetic and factor controls, structural-break searches, placebo dates and crops, leave-one-out tests, specification curves, wild-cluster inference, weather randomization, and causal machine learning.The data … aggregate land-use relations remain associational at the available spatial resolution.Forecasting provides an independent test of model stability. Expanding-window compariso
03165|Semi-Supervised Approach for Automatic Counting of Whiteflies With Small Annotated Dataset
   > consequently, more effective treatments. Recently, an approach that automatically counts the insects in the wild has been proposed by Bereciartua-Pérez et al. That method is
03166|Explainable machine learning for spatial risk assessment of Hyphantria cunea (Lepidoptera: Erebidae) in China
   > and anthropogenic predictors. Four non-spatial ensemble machine-learning algorithms were evaluated using 5-fold spatial cross-validation. The optimal model (LightGBM) was interpreted using SHAP and GeoShapley to
03167|Machine Learning Based Drought Prediction Using the Standardized Precipitation Evapotranspiration Index (SPEI) in Kebbi State, Nigeria
   > prediction accuracy (R2: 47–67%) for both short and long-term SPEI forecasts across different regions over the other models, while LSTM was not able to make
03168|Comprehensive approaches for assessing extinction risk of endangered tropical pitcher plant Nepenthes talangensis
   > in elevation from 1,740-2,558 m. Suitable habitat in 2100 was predicted to decrease in extent and be at higher elevation in the less extreme climate
03169|Integrating interpretable machine learning and untargeted metabolomics for geographical authentication and marker discovery of Paeoniae Radix Rubra
   > in China. A Random Forest classifier was constructed for geographical discrimination. Rigorous data partitioning and five-fold cross-validation were used to limit overfitting. SHapley Additive exPlanations … 80.0% and an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.947 on the independent test set. Taxifolin, 2-anisic acid, luteolin, apocynin, and 1,2,3,4,6-pentagalloylglucose were identified as
03170|Evaluating the Performance of the YOLOv5 Object Detection Algorithm for Real-Time Detection of Sunn Pests (Eurygaster integriceps) Across Complex Crop
   > [no abstract]
03171|Blockchain Impact on AI Powered Virtual Power Plant (AI-VPP)
   > distribution, and utilization data sets collected and analyzed over a period at different regions are the critical elements to plan a greener economy and sustainable
03172|PLM-OMG: Protein Language Model-Based Ortholog Detection for Cross-Species Cell Type Mapping
   > Accurate and scalable ortholog detection is central to this goal, particularly in cross-species single-cell analysis. However, conventional methods are time-consuming and perform poorly with distantly … we introduce PLM-OMG, a protein language model-based framework for orthogroup classification and cross-species cell type mapping. We benchmark five deep learning models including ESM2, ProGen2,
03173|Cross-sensor urban land-cover characterization using hyperspectral and multispectral satellite imagery
   > Introduction This study establishes a cross-sensor urban remote sensing baseline for future urban digital-intelligence applications by integrating separately … of mixed peri-urban surfaces but cannot be considered more accurate without an independent concurrent area-wide reference map. The findings do not establish universal sensor superiority;
03174|AI in Hypertensive Disorders of Pregnancy: Review
   > 29, 31.18%) and North America (n = 18, 19.35%), with underrepresentation in other regions. Input data predominantly comprised demographics (n = 50, 53.76%), patient/family history
03175|An Adaptive Machine Learning Scheme for Organic Land Mapping using Remote Sensing and Phenology
   > [no abstract]
03176|DFCDet: Integrating physical priors with deep learning for fog-resistant navel orange maturity recognition
   > [no abstract]
03177|DDAN-RGAL: A Dual-Domain Adaptive Network With Reality-Gap Aware Learning for Field-Deployable Plant Disease Detection
   > disease-intrinsic patterns from environmental artifacts using adversarial and mutual-information constraints. The second, cross-domain prototype learning with uncertainty, learns hierarchical laboratory and field disease prototypes while
03178|Machine Learning and Brain-Computer Interfaces for Medical and Psychiatric Translation, 2024-2026
   > transition is from small supervised decoders toward multimodal representation learning, self-supervised pretraining, domain adaptation, latent-dynamics stabilization, uncertainty-aware control, and clinically constrained online learning. The biomedical use cases are heterogeneous: non-invasive EEG and fNIRS … post-traumatic stress disorder, addiction, and affective dysregulation. A unifying techni
03179|Random Forest Prediction and Validation of Soil Moisture in Eastern Africa Using ESA CCI SM and ISMN In-Situ Observations
   > [no abstract]
03180|Design of a high-efficiency temporal engine for real-time satellite image classification using augmented incremental transfer learning for crop analys
   > average PSNR of 29.6 dB for different image types. The model was tested on different regions around our local geographical area, and consistent performance was observed. This
03181|Drought dynamics and climatic drivers in the Tarim Basin using remote sensing indices and pixel-wise machine learning
   > sensing and meteorological data, we employed a pixel-wise Random Forest framework with spatial cross-validation and permutation importance analysis to quantify climatic drivers across the TB. … CWSI reveals alleviating water stress in peripheral oasis farmlands (73.21% showing significant decrease, p < 0.05). Despite regional warming-wetting trends, TVDI exhibited an insignificant decrease (54.72%
03182|Robust Approach to Potato Detection in Variable Environments
   > [no abstract]
03183|Comparative epigenetics of domestic animals: focusing on DNA accessibility and its impact on gene regulation and traits
   > immune response, and productivity. Despite the progress, more comprehensive epigenomic datasets and cross-species analytical tools are needed to harness chromatin accessibility in domestic animal research.
03184|YOLOPoul: Performance evaluation of a novel YOLO object detectors benchmark for multi-class manure identification to warn about poultry digestive dise
   > However, building a reliable system for identifying and locating abnormal manure in real-world conditions remains challenging and requires large amounts of labeled data for supervised
03185|The Use of Unsupervised Random Forest in Diesel Oil Discrimination: A Fuel Adulteration Case Study
   > [no abstract]
03186|A cross-species drug-discovery platform to accelerate the identification of lifespan-extending interventions
   > combine longitudinal lifespan studies with home-cage activity monitoring to assess late-life interventions. Cross-species integration identifies multi-species geroprotectors and reveals convergence on known and novel conserved
03187|Improving Large-Scale Vegetation Monitoring: A Novel Machine Learning-Based Framework for Unmixing Sun-Induced Fluorescence
   > [no abstract]
03188|Robust Citrus Disease Diagnosis: A Hybrid CNN Framework for Multi‐Task Classification, Severity Estimation, and Cross‐Species Adaptation
   > growth phases have a significant impact on the production of citrus fruits, degrading the quality of the fruits. To prevent significant losses, early detection of
03189|Revealing the Driving Factors of the Chinese Baijiu Stock Market Based on Machine Learning
   > four dimensions: resources and agriculture, industry and manufacturing, services and consumption, and cross-domain sustainable development. Our findings indicate that the volatility of the Chinese Baijiu … the dynamics of the Chinese Baijiu stock market but also provide a transferable research framework and methodology for other industries.
03190|Estimation of the Amount of Soil Organic Carbon Using Spectral Data in the VIS-NIR-SWIR-TIR Spectral Range
   > to the collection of plant debris and their non-return to the soil. Another factor in reducing the amount of organic carbon is land use change, … (MSE) of 0.74, 0.17, and 0.02, respectively, was the best performance ratio another study used to estimate the organic carbon content of surface soil in
03191|Hybrid DRASTIC–machine learning framework for groundwater vulnerability assessment in parts of Akwa Ibom State, Nigeria
   > for policymakers to protect high-risk zones in the Niger Delta region and other regions with similar geologic characteristics.
03192|K-sharp: A segmented regression approach for image sharpening and normalization
   > terms of achievable spatial and temporal resolutions, albeit at the cost of decreased accuracy and cross-sensor consistency. As such, CubeSat datasets often require post-calibration approaches before using them
03193|Renyi Entropy of Convolutional Feature Maps for Texture Recognition
   > [no abstract]
03194|XylemVision: A Knowledge-Distilled deep learning framework for High-Throughput quantification of root anatomy in peanut
   > any labels. This pretraining phase enabled the student models to extract high-level generalized spatial features of the root images. The pretrained student detectors were then … only 0.10–0.58 IoU. Beyond these performance gains, the KD framework ensured strong transferability across species, successfully adapting to soybean root cross-sections without additional fine-tuning. Overall,
03195|A Hybrid Deep Learning and Remote Sensing Framework for Climate-Smart Livestock Grazing in Semi-Arid Nigeria
   > to sustain livestock production because of climate change, which brings unpredictable rainfall, degraded land, and shrinking grazing areas. This study develops a practical data-driven framework … images, climate data, and field observations) was integrated to assess how suitable different regions are for grazing. A hybrid ConvLSTM (Convolutional Neural Network and Long
03196|Phenology-Adapted Potato Mapping Index (Pmi) for Ground Sample-Free Identification
   > The resulting maps show high agreement with reference datasets, demonstrating robust spatiotemporal generalization. These findings offer a novel and valuable approach for global-scale potato mapping.
03197|Self-Supervised One-Class Prototypical Networks for Nuclear Power Plant Pipe Leak Detection
   > two major challenges: the difficulty of obtaining sufficient leak data and the degradation of performance when applied to unseen environments. To address these challenges, we propose one-class prototypical networks that trains … normal state data from multiple domains for training and effectively adapts to new environments with minimal support data. To further enhance performance, a self-supervise
03198|Enhancing Cross-Species Prediction of Leaf Mass per Area from Hyperspectral Remote Sensing Using Fractional Order Derivatives and 1D-CNNs
   > a one-dimensional convolutional neural network (1D-CNN) to enhance LMA prediction accuracy and cross-species generalization. Leaf hyperspectral reflectance was processed using FOD with 0–2 orders, and the … by an 8:2 random split between training and test sets, and (ii) cross-species generalization through leave-one-species-out validation. The results demonstrated that the 1D-CNN using a 1.5-order
03199|Animal group behavior analysis and pose estimation based on deep learning
   > [no term] Animal behavior analysis plays a pivotal role in neuroscience, behavioral ecology, animal welfare, and precision agriculture. However, traditional manual observation methods are often subjective, labor-intensive, and insufficient for large-scale quantification.
03200|Evolutionary and Deep Learning Models Highlight Deleterious Mutations Behind the History of Sugar Beet Breeding
   > [no term] Abstract Sugar beet ( Beta vulgaris ssp. vulgaris ) is a major global source of sucrose. Domestication and a history of breeding have shaped the distribution of deleterious mutations across
03201|Identification of KRAS mutation in rectal cancer based on a 2.5D deep learning model
   > [no term] Objective: To explore the utility of a 2.5D deep transfer learning (DTL) model for distinguishing between Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene (KRAS) mutant and wild-type phenotypes in patients with rectal
03202|Zero-Shot Segmentation through Prototype-Guidance for Multi-Label Plant Species Identification
   > ViT, built by replacing the patch embedding layer with a frozen DinoV2, pre-trained on the training dataset for individual species classification. This model is trained
03203|Interspecific Sample Prioritization Can Improve QTL Detection With Tree-Based Predictive Models
   > [no term] Due to increasing demand for new advanced crops, considerable efforts have been made to explore the improvement of stress and disease resistance cultivar traits through the study of wild crops.
03204|Machine Learning Models for Field-Scale Soil Moisture Mapping via UAS-Based GNSS-R
   > machine, were evaluated under challenging cross-validation strategies to assess spatial, temporal, and cross-crop generalization. In addition, multiple feature-selection techniques were applied to identify compact and physically … UAS-based GNSS-R SM prediction and point to promising directions for improving model generalization in future systems.
03205|Robust Fan Actuator Prediction in Smart Greenhouses Using Machine Learning: A Comparative Analysis of Ensemble and Linear Models
   > Vector Machine (SVM), Random Forest, Gradient Boosting, XGBoost, and Logistic Regression, under real-world conditions simulated by adding noise and label corruption to the dataset. The … employed for real-time fan actuator control. However, further validation is needed to generalize the findings to different greenhouse environments. The research highlights the potential of
03206|Generalized Classification of Satellite Image Time Series with Thermal Positional Encoding
   > discriminate crop types based on their unique growth patterns. However, existing methods generalize poorly to regions not seen during training mainly due to not being … thermal time, but not calendar time, TPE addresses the temporal shifts between different regions to improve generalization. We propose multiple TPE strategies, including learnable methods, to further improve results
03207|IMPLEMENTATION OF PRIORITY DIRECTIONS OF SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL ACTIVITIES OF THE FSBSI INSTITUTE «MAGARACH» OF THE RAS IN THE FIELD OF VITICULTURE 
   > [no term] Research is presented that contributes to an increase in the production of domestic grape and wine products, including in the system of organic farming. The object of research is grapes
03208|On Comparison of Classical and Machine Learning Models for Forecasting Rabi Green Gram Production in Odisha
   > production obtained from the fitted hybrid ARIMA-ANN model are found to be decreasing in future years. Thus, it could be concluded that the advanced machine learning model
03209|NeuroPupil: A generalization-first framework for scalable and biologically informative cross-species pupillometry
   > and clinical settings is limited by challenges in achieving accurate, scalable, and generalizable measurements. Here, we present NeuroPupil, a deep learning framework for high-throughput, cross-species pupillometry that emphasizes robust generalization across subjects, behavioral contexts, and imaging conditions. Through systematic benchmarking of training … with an optimized U-Net architecture as
03210|Scenario-based machine learning prediction of trait performance and stability in crested wheatgrass under climate change
   > [no abstract]
03211|A Resident Prophage Metabolically Reprograms Root-Colonizing Pseudomonas to Modulate Plant Physiology
   > [no abstract]
03212|Integrative Identification of Frailty Status in Elderly Patients with Atrial Fibrillation Using a Noise-Resilient Multimodal Machine Learning Approach
   > electrocardiogram (ECG) and clinical features, may improve frailty identification, even in noisy real-world conditions. To develop a noise-resilient ML framework for identifying frailty status in … this single-center cohort; however, these findings should be considered hypothesis-generating and require external validation in larger, multicenter AF populations before clinical adoption. Given the li
03213|Spatial inversion of soil fertility in integrated crop-livestock farming areas using UAV-borne hyperspectral data based on COA-TWSVM
   > [no abstract]
03214|Evaluation of a New Inclusive Next‐Generation Synthetic Face Tool for Dysmorphology
   > generation pipeline using diffusion models (DreamShaper XL Turbo), enhanced with LoRA-based syndrome-specific domain adaptation and pose conditioning via ControlNet. A total of 4432 synthetic faces
03215|Attention-enhanced deep learning framework with explainability and transfer learning for X-ray inspection
   > [no abstract]
03216|Fine-Grained Classification of Wolfberry Pests Based on Generative Self-Supervised Learning
   > [no abstract]
03217|Identification of Irrigation Canals using Deep Learning Techniques from Remote Sensing Data
   > subsequently divided into training and validation subsets. To mitigate overfitting and improve generalization, data augmentation techniques—such as rotation, flipping, scaling, and brightness variation—were applied exclusively to the training data. Six deep learning architectures were independently trained and evaluated for the task of canal segmentation. These networks represent … have shown stro
03218|2NPLGBM: a genomic model that merges the strengths of classical and machine learning methods in genomic prediction
   > to silking, and days to anthesis) under five cross-validation schemes simulating temporal: Leave-One-Year-Out (LOYO), Rolling Window (RW), and genetic generalization: Five-Fold, and tester-based schemes (Tester CV0 and Tester CV00). Compared to GBLUP,
03219|Visión por computadora para detectar enfermedades fúngicas en cacao: revisión sistemática de arquitecturas de deep learning
   > datasets, demonstrating their potential for transfer learning applications. However, limitations remain regarding cross-domain generalization, model explainability, and the availability of data collected under real-world field conditions.
03220|Sequence-Aware Deep Learning for Field-Scale Surface Soil Moisture Estimation from Sentinel-1, HLS, and Ancillary Data
   > attention (TA), and the combined feature–temporal attention (FTA). Models were trained and tested on seven years of data and were validated based on a temporal generalization using combined data of a wet year (2016) and a dry year
03221|Understanding the effect of Agricultural Practices on Valley Fever through a Novel Statistical Model using Dust Emissions
   > cover. Following this initial testing, soil samples were collected and tested from different locations around the Phoenix Metropolitan area, implementing another variable into this model. This additional testing revealed that the effectiveness of
03222|Reuse Out-of-Year Data to Enhance Land Cover Mapping via Feature Disentanglement and Contrastive Learning
   > isolates useful information associated to the downstream LC mapping task and mitigates distribution shifts between domains. Moreover, REFeD incorporates an effective supervision scheme to reinforce
03223|Eggplant Leaf Disease Classification Using Deep Learning and a Robust Real-Time System Based on YOLOv8 and Streamlit
   > upload an image. That means the system is robust and operates effectively in the wild as opposed to ideal test conditions, which lends itself well
03224|Exploring the Potential of Long Short-Term Memory Networks for Predicting Net CO2 Exchange Across Various Ecosystems With Multi-Source Data
   > 0.89, p < 0.001). Moreover, the LSTM model performed robustly in predicting cross-site variability, with 67.19% of the sites that can be predicted by both
03225|Retrospective simulation of land use area dynamics in the Hamoun Wetland using annual machine learning and management scenarios
   > [no abstract]
03226|Combining multisource remote sensing images using machine learning methods (RF and SVM) for improved cotton field mapping
   > [no abstract]
03227|Improving Photosynthesis Efficiency in Potato: A Review of Genetic and Agronomic Approaches
   > the perspective of molecular design breeding, CRISPR/Cas9-mediated photosynthetic gene editing technology and cross-species transfer strategies of key enzyme genes in C4 and CAM photosynthetic pathways
03228|From National to Global: Mapping Global Center-Pivot Irrigated Cropland with Knowledge Guided Data Augmentation
   > [no abstract]
03229|Balancing Performance and Fairness in Explainable AI for Anomaly Detection in Distributed Power Plants Monitoring
   > the Disparate Impact Ratio (DIR) across operational clusters. We further evaluate model generalization using Maximum Mean Discrepancy (MMD) to capture domain shifts between regions. Experimental results show that ensemble models consistently outperform baselines,
03230|Assessing the Sensitivity of Global Maize Price to Regional Productions Using Statistical and Machine Learning Methods [Évaluation de la sensibilité d
   > America negatively impacts the global maize price by about –7%, while a decrease of –0.1% is expected to increase global maize price by more than +7%. Our classification models show that a small decrease in the maize yield in Northern America can inflate the probability of maize price increase on the global scale. The maize productions in the other regions have a much lower influence on the global
03231|Predicting Vegetation Stress from Antecedent Hydroclimatic Conditions Across Germany: A Machine Learning Approach with Spatially Blocked Validation
   > [no abstract]
03232|Genetic footprint of population diversity and genetic structure of Venturia inaequalis infecting apple (Malus × domestica Borkh.)
   > [no abstract]
03233|SICD6mA: Identifying 6mA Sites using Deep Memory Network
   > (AUC) values of 0.9824 and 0.9903 for Human and Rice’s genomes in independent test evaluations, separately. Conclusions The successful prediction rate of 6mA sites on cross-species genomes exhibited higher accuracy than that of the state-of-the-art methods. For the … of experimental scientists, the user-friendly tool SICD6mA was developed to predict the cross-species 6mA sites, thereby acceleratin
03234|Cartography and chemical profiling of rosemary essential oil in Eastern High Atlas Mountains, Morocco
   > [no abstract]
03235|Potential Distribution Shifts and Ecological Implications of Two Invasive Xanthium Species in China Under Climate Warming Scenarios
   > [no term] Predicting the potential climatic suitability of invasive plants under global warming is essential for understanding invasion mechanisms and developing targeted management and control strategies. Here, we used MaxEnt and biomod2
03236|Mapping understorey tree invasion in a drought-affected forest using multi-view UAV imagery and deep learning
   > and would have been missed by conventional orthomosaic-based methods. To assess CNN generalization abilities, we altered training and prediction domains: lower-processing-level aerial images vs. higher-processing-level … For intra-domain predictions, aerial-trained models (F1=0.880) outperformed ortho-trained models (F1=0.805). When applied cross-domain, aerial models retained superior performance
03237|Genome-wide association study bridging genomics–phenomics gap in natural plant populations
   > [no abstract]
03238|Active transfer learning for audiogram estimation
   > testing time and diagnostic complexity. However, these CA models have mainly been trained on single populations. This study integrated contextual and prior knowledge from audiogram … mapping function drawn from feature-based homogeneous Transfer Learning (TL) also known as Domain Adaptation (DA) and (2) Active Learning (Uncertainty Sampling) using a stream-based query
03239|Super-resolution reconstruction of remote sensing images based on dimension permutation and asymmetric feature fusion
   > [no abstract]
03240|D-Xotic: A Deep Learning Improvement for Recognising Different Durian Cultivars Based on Leaves Signature
   > five cultivars (Bawor, Kani, Monthong, Musang King, and Petruk) was collected under real-world conditions. Unlike existing studies that formulate plant varietal identification solely as an
03241|Hyperspectral Sensing for High-Throughput Screening of Boron Tolerance in Grapevines
   > B exclusion, with some genotypes maintaining low leaf B content despite high external concentrations. Classification models (Partial Least Squares Discriminant Analysis and Random Forest classification)
03242|A regional model for soil moisture concentration from remote sensing data and its application for agricultural drought hazard mapping
   > [no abstract]
03243|Comparing AI agents and machine learning for predicting mechanical and rheological properties of dense food structures
   > with explicit mechanistic priors. Two case studies were used. Case 1 involved out-of-distribution prediction of hardness and chewiness in plant-based meat analogues from proximate composition
03244|MicroGraphBERT: soil microbial gene sequence classification via fusing taxonomic hierarchies and DNABERTbased contextual embeddings
   > to enable joint modeling of sequence and ecological features for microbial classification. Trained on high-throughput sequencing data from the Guizhou loess regions, MicroGraphBERT integrates nucleotide-level contextual semantics from DNABERT and cross-species relational learning with graph attention network to capture both sequence features and
03245|Impact of dataset partitioning on the reliability of SERS–machine learning models for antimicrobial resistance classification
   > [no abstract]
03246|Physics guided semantic consistency learning for bearing fault diagnosis in agricultural machinery under operating condition shifts
   > and deployment signals. This work studies bearing fault diagnosis under a source-only, single-source domain generalization (DG) setting, where the model is trained and selected using only source-domain … penalty used to discourage near-uniform averaging. This design aims to improve cross-condition generalization by using the analytic path as a mechanism-oriented semantic anchor, constraining the
03247|Improving drain flow simulations in a national hydrological model with machine learning estimates of drain fraction
   > topographic and geologic covariates available nationally at fine resolution. An analysis of spatial transferability of the machine learning algorithm allowed to limit predictions to applicable
03248|Kakadu plum (Terminalia ferdinandiana Exell.): Provenance authentication to support first nations enterprises, regulators, and consumers
   > [no term] Terminalia ferdinandiana Exell., commonly known as Kakadu plum, is a native fruit that holds cultural and economic significance for Australian Indigenous people. This wild-harvested fruit, owing to its remarkable nutritional
03249|GE-BiFormer: bidirectional cross-attention integration of genomic and Enviromic data for genotype-by-environment prediction in maize
   > traits. The evaluation focused on three breeding-relevant scenarios: predicting known genotypes in unseen environments, predicting novel genotypes in known environments, and predicting novel genotypes in … consistently outperformed GBLUP, classical machine learning methods, and recent deep learning approaches. External validation on an independent winter wheat dataset further demonstrated the broa
03250|A novel approach to feedback control with deep reinforcement learning
   > [no term] We present a novel approach to feedback control design by leveraging the power of deep reinforcement learning (RL). The goal is to blend the RL methodology with mathematical analysis to
03251|Graph metric learning quantifies morphological differences between two genotypes of shoot apical meristem cells inArabidopsis
   > present a method for learning ‘spectrally descriptive’ edge weights for graphs. We generalize a previously known distance measure on graphs (graph diffusion distance [GDD]), thereby … trm678 mutant cells are characterized by increased randomness of division planes and decreased ability to avoid previous vertices between cell walls.
03252|Balanced Multi-Source Transfer Learning for Fruit Quality Prediction With Limited Data
   > combining data from multiple established crops is highly unreliable—improving results in some target domains (+ 23.7%) while causing catastrophic performance degradation in others (R2 drops from 0.553 to −0.494). We term this the … Learning (BMTL), a principled framework that controls source-target balance to enable effective cross-crop knowledge transfer, operating in a few-shot regime where a sm
03253|CE-Fusion Botanic: A Lightweight Leaf Disease Detection Model via Adaptive Local–Global Information Fusion
   > To solve the problem of limited generalization ability that is widely existing in lightweight models used for leaf disease … Botanic is significantly better than comparative methods in both detection accuracy and generalization performance, and at the same time, it keeps a lightweight profile, which demonstrates superior cross-dataset adaptation capabilities.
03254|AI-Driven Agricultural Advisory and Diagnostic Systems for Smallholder Farming: Technical Architectures, Evidence and Deployment Priorities for North-
   > high accuracy in curated datasets, but performance can deteriorate sharply under field domain shift, class novelty and variable image quality. North-East Indian studies of mobile … in curated regional knowledge, represents uncertainty, preserves provenance and escalates high-risk or out-of-distribution cases. Future research should prioritise prospective district- and season-spanning evaluations t
03255|Computer Vision Technologies for Food Quality and Safety Assurance: Evaluating Trends and Analytical Results
   > [no abstract]
03256|Estimation of Individual Tree Height in Eucalyptus spp. Plantations Using Regression Methods and Machine Learning Algorithms in Rio Grande do Sul
   > were fitted, along with Random Forest and Artificial Neural Network algorithms, using data partitioning into training (80%) and validation (20%) datasets. Model performance was evaluated
03257|Sleep Identification Enabled by Supervised Training Algorithms (SIESTA): An open-source platform for automatic sleep staging of rodent polysomnographi
   > [no term] Abstract The temporal distribution of sleep stages is critical for the study of sleep function, regulation, and disorders in higher vertebrates. This temporal distribution is typically determined polysomnographically. In laboratory
03258|IMCLASS – A USER-TAILORED MACHINE LEARNING IMAGE CLASSIFICATION CHAIN FOR CHANGE DETECTION OR LANDCOVER MAPPING
   > construction works in urban areas, burnt areas, vegetation classes…). It is a generalization of the ALADIM processor already validated in the context of landslide mapping … evaluated on three use cases: landslide detection and mapping after disasters in different regions of the World, urban classes change detection with a focus on
03259|AI Deep Driven Framework for Automated Identification and Classification of Plant Species from Leaf Images Using Transfer Learning Techniques
   > fabricated; they should be populated after the proposed models are trained and tested on the selected dataset.
03260|AgriFuse-SSL: Region-Adaptive Weak-Strong Filtering and Confi-dence-Calibrated Semi-Supervised Learning for IoT Crop-Yield De-cision Support
   > of large scale. The proposed framework first locks a 53-predictor schema, isolates independent farm-field records by record hash and time-region group, and applies weak and … It then forms density-calibrated pseudo-labels, corrects their regional prior, selects features using cross-region stability, and learns a compact feature-token encoder that combines one-dimensional convolution with
03261|JCSO‐⋮DMN: Jellyfish Competitive Shuffled Optimisation Enabled Deep Maxout Architecture for Maize Leaf Disease Detection in IoT
   > high‐level contextual data that assists recognition models to efficiently detect crop infections in the wild. For maize leaf disease identification in IoT, this research proposes
03262|Evolutionarily Conserved Heat-Induced Chromatin Dynamics Drive Heat Stress Responses in Plants
   > primary determinant of chromatin dynamics. To extend these insights, we develop a cross-species and cross-condition machine learning framework that accurately predicts chromatin accessibility and gene
03263|Street-Scale Nonlinear Associations Between 2D and 3D Plant Morphology and Land Surface Temperature
   > forest (RF), and SHAP characterized linear, nonlinear, and model-based contributions; and buffered spatial cross-validation and spatial resampling evaluated robustness. Under the original random 80–20% train–test … the HH zone, and 0.0488/0.4853 for the LL zone. Under five-fold buffered spatial cross-validation, the corresponding pooled out-of-fold R2 values were 0.1940/0.2237, 0.1427/0.0965, and 
03264|Spatial and temporal variation of pollen signature of grapevine and associated Mediterranean vegetation inferred by deep learning
   > [no abstract]
03265|Selective sweep sites and SNP dense regions differentiate Mycobacterium bovis isolates across scales
   > and/or selective sweep sites play a role in Mycobacterium bovis adaptation to new environments (e.g., at the host-species, geographical, and/or sub-population levels). A simulated M.
03266|Comparative Evaluation of Machine Learning Models for Predicting Grinding Throughput in Mining Operations
   > [no term] Accurate grinding throughput prediction, expressed in tons per hour (tph), plays an important role in maximizing the economic value of comminution circuits. This study integrates geometallurgical data, drill-and-blast parameters, and
03267|Rapid Classification and Deep Learning-Based Development Estimation of the Seeds of Helianthus annuus
   > was selected on the validation set and then applied unchanged to an independent test set of 109 images. The baseline model was compared with recent … conditions, while highlighting the need for improved localization in dense regions and domain adaptation for fresh heads or field conditions. The annotated dataset and trained
03268|RapeseedNet: a lightweight deep learning model for rapeseed quality detection based on near-infrared spectroscopy
   > [no abstract]
03269|Machine Learning Approach to Identify and Evaluate the High protein-yielding Varieties of Glycine max
   > algorithm to classify the nutritionally superior soybean samples.50 samples were collected from different regions of the hilly areas of the state and evaluated for protein
03270|Reducing the gap between general purpose data and aerial images in concentrated solar power plants
   > uncommon in traditional computer vision benchmarks. As a result, machine learning models trained on generic datasets struggle to generalize to this setting without extensive retraining and large volumes of annotated data. … aerial imagery of CSP plants. By generating synthetic data that closely mimic real-world conditions, our objective is to facilitate pretraining of models before deployment, sig
03271|Pre-manufacturing prediction of jaggery color formation through soil and water parameters using machine learning
   > Gradient Boosting classifiers. Color labels were assigned through expert visual grading and independently verified under standardized conditions; however, no instrumental colorimetric measurements were used, which … for 62.93% of predictive importance. Three-tier validation including cross-validation, bootstrap resampling, and Leave-One-Location-Out analysis across 19 locations confirmed robust wi
03272|Advances in Machine Learning for Drug Repurposing: From Methodologies to Precision Medicine with Case Studies in COVID-19, Parkinson's Disease, and Ca
   > ranging from 0.88 to 0.99 on their respective benchmarks, though significant performance degradation (AUROC drops of 0.05-0.15) was observed under cross dataset generalization, underscoring the translational gap between benchmark and real-world performance. We analyze computational challenges, including data sparsity, model overfitting, limited generalizability across datasets, and the interpretab
03273|Sweet potato grasping point recognition in complex backgrounds: a method based on salient object detection
   > [no term] To address challenges in crop grasping tasks for agricultural robots, specifically, poor crop background segmentation and limited adaptability in grasp point localization, this paper proposes a saliency guided segmentation approach.
03274|Nondestructive firmness prediction for apples using force-aware through-transmission ultrasound with machine learning
   > the 0–3 kHz band area provided superior noise tolerance under minimal contact. Cross-season transfer tests showed reduced accuracy on an unseen season, and recalibration with a small number of season-specific samples recovered much
03275|Fusing appearance and vein morphology using dual-branch deep networks for accurate medicinal plant identification
   > But, accurate identification of medicinal leaves still poses a potential challenge in real-world conditions due to high similarity between species, variability within classes, uneven lighting, … framework that explicitly separates and preserves appearance and venation learning using two independent pre-trained feature extractors, instead of relying on traditional fusion methods that combine
03276|Usefulness of mid-infrared spectroscopy as a tool to estimate body condition score change from milk samples in intensively fed dairy cows
   > set. 4-fold cross-validation was used to calibrate and test the prediction equations. External validation was also conducted using more recent years of data. Irrespective of … was more informative than DIM. Model performance when predicting ΔBCS records in future years was similar to that from cross-validation demonstrating the ability of MIR
03277|From barley to rapeseed: few-shot fine-tuning of semantic segmentation models for weed detection using UAV multispectral imagery
   > [no abstract]
03278|Comammox Nitrospira and AOB are more sensitive to warming than AOA in croplands of the North China Plain
   > [no abstract]
03279|Drift-aware deep learning and physics-informed monitoring for coupled photovoltaic-hydrogen systems
   > at scale. However, their monitoring remains intrinsically challenging due to multi-scale non-stationarity, cross-domain electro-electrochemical coupling, and progressive degradation phenomena. Fast regime shifts arise from irradiance intermittency and energy management strategies, … drift is induced by PV soiling, interconnect aging, membrane thinning, and catalyst degradation. Although extensive 
03280|A novel computational machine learning pipeline to quantify similarities in 3D protein structures
   > as the similarity in the target protein. The current practice to address cross-species protein similarity relies on pairwise sequence comparison using protein sequences, instead of
03281|Rethinking genomic selection under environmental uncertainty: toward learnable and dynamic environmental representations
   > challenge and the greatest opportunity in modern breeding. Increasing climate volatility, soil degradation, and diverse management practices make phenotypes inherently context dependent. Traditional genomic selection … in envirotyping, remote sensing, and phenomics have transformed the environment from an external disturbance into a measurable, data-rich component of the phenotype (Xu et al.,
03282|Leakage-Controlled Classification of Extrusion Screw Condition Using Wavelet and Deep Learning Methods
   > currents and four barrel temperatures were recorded during two soybean-extrusion campaigns representing independently verified new and worn screw states. Five pipelines were evaluated using identical … descriptors underperformed conventional time-domain descriptors, and thermal fusion did not improve temporal generalization. The results therefore do not establish an inherent advantage of CWT. Beca
03283|Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Across Domains: From Healthcare and Genomics to Supply Chains and Sustainable Development
   > need for transparent governance frameworks remain critical considerations. This paper explores the cross-domain applications of AI and ML, highlights their current and emerging contributions, and
03284|Bad air quality raises mortality in honey bees, a concern for all pollinators
   > [no abstract]
03285|Unraveling Honey Bee’s Waggle Dances in Natural Conditions with Video-Based Deep Learning
   > and a run angle RMSE of 0.14 radians. We also assessed the generalizability of our pipeline to previously unseen recording conditions, successfully detecting 50% of waggle runs performed by Apis mellifera … automatically analyze the waggle runs of Apis dorsata in natural conditions and generalize to other bee species. This approach enables precise measurement of direction and
03286|Database: web application for visualization of the cumulated RNAseq data against the salicylic acid (SA) and methyl jasmonate (MeJA) treatment of Arab
   > [no term] BACKGROUND: Plants have adapted to survive under adverse conditions or exploit favorable conditions in response to their environment as sessile creatures. In a way of plant adaptation, plant hormones have
03287|Improving Building Footprint Extraction Using NAIP and 3DEP Lidar Derived Features with Deep Learning
   > positives while maintaining sensitivity. Predictions on withheld Houston tiles confirmed strong within-region generalization, yielded a precision of 0.78, recall of 0.81, F1 score of 0.79, … integrating spectral and structural information for robust building footprint extraction and how domain adaptation strategies can be used to enhance cross-regional transferability.
03288|A Comprehensive Review of Ocular Metrics for Fatigue Assessment: From Physiology to Machine Learning
   > [no abstract]
03289|Hybrid Machine-Learning and Process-Based Model for Predicting Multi-Pathway Contaminant Transport in Soil–Water Systems
   > to improve prediction of multi-pathway contaminant transport involving advection, dispersion, diffusion, sorption, degradation, and preferential flow through soil–water interfaces. The framework integrates physically based equations … formulations, while machine-learning components, including random forests and recurrent neural networks, are trained on monitoring, laboratory, and remote-sensing da
03290|A Systematic Review of Deep Learning Based Grape Disease Detection Models Evaluating Generalizability Dataset Diversity and Computational Efficiency A
   > detection based on visual symptoms but there are still major issues of generalizability to new environments, diversity of data sets, and computational efficiency to be able to … in the early stage symptoms and in the low quality imagery. The cross-dataset tests show that there are still issues with domain shifts, the quality of annotations and the poor representation of field conditions,
03291|Multi-Sensor Data and Image Fusion for Environmental Parameter Prediction with Uncertainty-Aware Deep Learning
   > and sensor reliability, enhancing learning on high-uncertainty samples. Systematic experiments on four cross-domain environmental benchmarks (Air Quality, Soil Moisture, Water Quality, and Urban Microclimate) demonstrate … attains a PICP of 96.2% with 23.5% MPIW reduction, and exhibits strong cross-domain transferability with statistical significance (Wilcoxon rank-sum test, p < 0.01).
03292|Contrasting Roles of Solar-Induced Chlorophyll Fluorescence (Sif) in Mechanistic and Machine Learning Models for Simulating Eco-Hydrological Processes
   > [no abstract]
03293|Spatial and Household Predictors of Climate Impacts: A Comparative Machine Learning Study in Indonesian Coastal Farming Communities
   > [no abstract]
03294|An AI-Driven Computer Vision Framework for Automated Detection, Segmentation, and Classification of Medicinal Plant Leaves
   > constraints, intelligent and automatic recognition systems that reliably identify a species in real-world conditions are needed. This study introduces a novel computer vision approach to … and extensive data augmentation methods are used in order to increase model generalizability of changes in illumination, scale, orientation, occlusion, and background clutter. All the
03295|Uncertainty-Aware Brain-Tumor Type Classification From MRI: Segmentation-Guided ROI, Conformal Prediction, and Selective Abstention Under Distribution
   > blur, and gamma corruptions, where exchangeability no longer holds, the empirical coverage degraded but was restored by recalibration and patient-aware inference, while the abstention rate
03296|How Hurricanes Drive Bird Displacement in Gulf Ecosystems Revealed by Deep Learning Species Distribution Model
   > [no abstract]
03297|Deep Learning Approaches for Apple Disease Classification and Detection: A PRISMA 2020 Systematic Literature Review
   > Architectures, datasets, preprocessing and augmentation strategies, training configurations, evaluation metrics, evidence of generalization, and deployment characteristics are discussed separately for the two task paradigms. Reported … lack of reporting of hyperparameters, an over-reliance on accuracy, the lack of external validation, heterogeneity in annotation, the lack of uncertainty analysis, 
03298|DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION OF AN END-TOEND DEEP LEARNING SYSTEM FOR AUTONOMOUS DRIVING: FROM VISUAL PERCEPTION TO INTELLIGENT VEHICLE CONTROL
   > furthermore complicate analysis and provide difficulty on the way toward safe deployment: distribution shift in imitation learning, interpretability, debugging, and safety in closed-loop control. This … normalization, and data augmentation (brightness modifications, horizontal flipping, and spatial shifting) to generalize better from variation in lighting and camera standpoint. Our proposed networ
03299|From Noise to Knowledge: A Comparative Study of Acoustic Anomaly Detection Models in Pumped-storage Hydropower Plants
   > benchmark three machine learning models: LSTM AE, K-Means, and OC-SVM, which are tested on two real-world datasets from the Rodundwerk II pumped-storage plant in Austria, one with induced anomalies and one with real-world conditions. The One-Class SVM achieved the best trade-off of accuracy (ROC AUC
03300|A fully automated morphological analysis of yeast mitochondria from wide-field fluorescence images
   > we compared Global thresholding segmentation with deep learning MitoSegNet segmentation, which we retrained on yeast cells. The deep learning model outperformed the Global thresholding segmentation.
03301|Artificial intelligence in precision poultry farming: opportunities, challenges, and future features
   > [no term] The integration of Artificial Intelligence with sensor networks, computer vision, and predictive analytics enables real-time, data-driven management, improving productivity, health outcomes, and welfare monitoring. An AI-based behavioral, visual, and acoustic
03302|YOLOv11n-DEG for Maize Kernel Damage Detection
   > learning methods struggle to balance accuracy, model complexity, and multi-class recognition under real-world conditions. To address these issues, this paper proposes YOLOv11n_DEG, an improved lightweight … a dual-dropout strategy in the classification head to mitigate overfitting and improve generalization. Additionally, to account for potential discrepancies in damage characteristics between the
03303|Saline patch identification using a semi-supervised knowledge integration deep learning framework based solely on UAV RGB imagery
   > [no abstract]
03304|Prediction of Urban Growth and Sustainability Challenges Based on LULC Change: Case Study of Two Himalayan Metropolitan Cities
   > analysis, the projected expansion areas of the urban area for the two future years are 282.39 km2 and 337.37 km2 for Kathmandu, and 93.17 km2
03305|Leakage-Aware Transfer Learning with Explainable AI and CPU-Efficient Deployment for Mango Leaf Disease Classification on the MangoLeafBD Benchmark
   > [no term] Background and Aim: Mango (Mangifera indica) is a globally important fruit crop whose productivity is repeatedly threatened by foliar diseases such as anthracnose, bacterial canker, powdery mildew, die-back, and sooty
03306|Postharvest Fruit Grading Technologies and Equipment: A Review
   > that causes little mechanical damage to ensure the uniformity of products and decrease market price and losses in the supply chain. This paper describes the … designs and practical uses in different types of fruits. It examines the external features, internal quality and hidden faults by using machine vision, visible-near-infrared spectroscopy,
03307|SeedStudio: A unified system for automated seed imaging and continual classification
   > known species—with a server-side, class-incremental learning model that incorporates images of previously unseen seeds without full model retraining. The updated server-side model can be synchronized
03308|Next-generation Site-specific Weed Management: A Critical Synthesis of Sensing, Artificial Intelligence and Precision Actuation
   > established practical sensor-based systems. Evidence was appraised for methodological quality, field realism, generalisability and the degree to which technical performance translated into weed-control efficacy, crop … Yet benchmark classification accuracy remains an incomplete predictor of field performance because domain shift, occlusion, weed growth stage, illumination, georeferencing error, la
03309|Human perception-based deep learning classification: an exploratory application to a large chronobiology dataset
   > with traditional image analysis descriptors previously used. A preliminary chronobiological application was tested on the dataset (PSDs and cross-correlation analysis). Evaluator consistency was 100%. The
03310|Digital Soil Mapping of Soil Taxonomic Classes: Prospects and Challenges for Machine Learning Integration in Nigeria
   > harmonisation between classification systems, constrained computing and technical capacity, and poor model transferability across agro-ecological zones. Prospects for advancing the field include renewed legacy-data mobilisation,
03311|Development of a generic machine learning model for flowrate generation in catchments using a global database
   > flow rates in catchment areas. The model employs a machine learning architecture trained on historical observational data from 30 Water Resource Recovery Facility (WRRF) sites … of machine learning with extensive, varied datasets to create adaptable tools that generalize across different locations and conditions without requiring site-specific recalibration. In this case, the model
03312|Past, present, and future potential distributions of the African multipurpose tree Detarium senegalense (Fabaceae)
   > past, current, and future climate scenarios were assessed using four algorithms including generalized additive models (GAM), generalized linear models (GLM), random forest (RF), and Maximum Entropy (MaxEnt). We also … senegalense was relatively constant from the past to the present but could decrease in the next decades. In the future, only 17.70% and 13.98% of
03313|deepTFBS: Improving within- and cross-species prediction of transcription factor binding using deep multi-task and transfer learning
   > binding profiles to enhance the prediction of TFBSs under small-sample training and cross-species prediction tasks. When tested using available information on 359 Arabidopsis TFs, deepTFBS … 23.32% improvement of the area under the precision-recall curve (PRAUC), respectively. Further cross-species prediction of TFBS in wheat showed that deepTFBS yielded a significant PRAUC
03314|Confidence and uncertainty aware deep learning for reliable grape leaf disease diagnosis under real world field conditions
   > stratified five-fold cross-validation in binary and multiclass classification tasks, while a third independently collected dataset was reserved exclusively for leakage-free external validation. EfficientNet-B0 and MobileNetV3-Large were evaluated under four inference configurations: raw inference, … Monte Carlo dropout, and an ensemble strategy combining uncertainty estimation with calibration. Ex
03315|Chroma-Sense 2.0: A Memory-Efficient Two-Stage Pipeline for Lightweight On-Device Plant Disease Segmentation and Classification
   > [no term] On-device plant disease perception must reconcile two competing demands: enough spatial detail to localise diseased tissue within a field image and a memory and compute budget small enough for microcontroller-class
03316|Shaping the future of citrus yield prediction with multimodal data fusion and machine learning: a systematic review
   > and large-scale datasets, occlusion and variability in image-based methods, and poor model transferability across orchards, varieties, and growing regions. To address these barriers, future research … state of citrus yield prediction and a roadmap for advancing toward reliable, transferable, and sustainable forecasting systems.
03317|Peanut yield and grade prediction in Georgia, USA: integrating management, climate, and remote sensing data with explainable AI
   > driving outcomes using SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP); and d) assess the spatial generalization of the best models using a Leave-One-Site-Year-Out (LOSYO) cross-validation. A total of 540 ML were trained comparing 18 different
03318|PDCA-FORMER: PRIOR-DIAGONAL CROSS ATTENTION-GUIDED TRANSFORMER FOR FLOOD MAPPING FROM SAR IMAGERY: A CASE IN KHARTOUM
   > accurate and efficient flood mapping from SAR imagery that can be quickly generalized to other regions. Therefore, it can significantly aid disaster management efforts on vulnerable communities.
03319|SOIL MOISTURE PREDICTION USING LSTM AND GRU: UNIVARIATE AND MULTIVARIATE DEEP LEARNING APPROACHES
   > 0.19280, and R² = starting from 0.9626 on day 1 (t), then decreasing to 0.8075 on day 10 The univariate LSTM model excelled in training … spatial and temporal scope. Therefore, future research should test the model in other regions and under extreme climate conditions, as well as apply transfer learning
03320|From Infection to Adaptation: Sclerotium rolfsii-Induced Stress and Defense in Tomato
   > and induces reddish-brown cankers through secretion of oxalic acid (OA) and cell wall-degrading enzymes, which girdle tissues, impair water transport, and result in rapid plant
03321|Wild Animal Detection and Alert System
   > [no term] The main objective of the Project is Abstract Wild Animal Detection and Alert System: A Technological Solution for Human-Wildlife Conflict Mitigation. The escalating issue of human-wildlife conflict necessitates innovative and
03322|A Machine Learning Framework for Weighted Least Squares GNSS Positioning based on Activation Functions
   > multi-constellations GNSS effectively increase the number of available satellites, the inclusion of degraded signals can lead to severe positioning errors. This study proposes a machine … scenarios. Furthermore, our results indicate that the proposed algorithm exhibits strong geographical transferability. The proposed algorithm maintains comparable level of performance when trained on data from ot
03323|Advancing flood warning in rural watersheds: A data-driven machine learning classification framework
   > forecasting models. The framework developed from this work can be applied to other regions to develop flood forecasting models with interpretable outputs for stakeholders including
03324|Assessing the Impacts of Greenhouse Lifespan on the Evolution of Soil Quality in Highland Mountain Vegetable Farmland
   > greenhouse operations face a critical challenge in the form of soil quality degradation, yet the key intervention periods and underlying mechanisms of this process remain … However, as the greenhouse lifespan increased, the soil aggregates gradually disintegrated, particle-size distribution shifted toward finer clay fractions, and pH changed from neutral to slightly
03325|A Spectral Flatness-Based Operating-RegimeIdentification Framework for Hybrid Machine LearningForecasting of Industrial-Scale Photovoltaic Plants
   > [no abstract]
03326|Quantifying Validation-Induced Optimism in Machine Learning for Food Spectroscopy: An Empirical Multi-Dataset Benchmark
   > n = 4,233 calibration spectra across 5 cultivars and n = 1,448 external harvest season spectra; target: dry matter content), and Tecator meat NIR (n … reference-valuegrouped validation, or deduplicated validation), Level 3 (cultivar-aware validation), and Level 4 (external instrument and seasonal holdout). Model specifications were held fixed across validation tiers
03327|Multimodal fusion for precision livestock behavior monitoring: A systematic review of deep learning, pose estimation, and sensor integration strategie
   > [no abstract]
03328|Decoding Glioblastoma Complexity Through Extracellular Vesicles, Organ-on-Chip Models, and Deep Learning
   > source attribution, immune-component integration, DL model selection, data scarcity, overfitting, batch effects, domain shift, regulatory barriers, cost, throughput, and reproducibility. By repositioning OoC-EV-DL integration as
03329|Explainable machine learning for predicting glycyrrhizic acid accumulation in Glycyrrhiza glabra L. using environmental drivers and SHAP-based interpr
   > [no term] Glycyrrhizic acid, the principal bioactive triterpenoid saponin in licorice ( Glycyrrhiza glabra L.), exhibits pronounced spatial variability. Understanding its drivers is essential for stock conservation and cultivation. Root samples from
03330|Two telomere-to-telomere gapless genomes reveal insights into Capsicum evolution and capsaicinoid biosynthesis
   > [no abstract]
03331|23. Prediction of BRAF V600 mutation status in cutaneous melanoma using an explainable deep learning model
   > [no abstract]
03332|Transformer-LSTM Improve Maize-Yield Estimation in Smallholder Fields of Malawi
   > maize fields (0.2–0.9 ha) in Zomba District, Malawi, under a strict nested leave-one-field-out cross-validation design. Our results show that the recurrent architectures significantly outperform the
03333|ARACoFusion: Uncertainty-aware calibrated deep learning for protein-protein interaction network prediction in Arabidopsis thaliana
   > Balanced Accuracy, and Matthew’s Correlation Coefficient (MCC). Additionally, the model exhibits robust cross-species generalization and clear class separability in t-SNE latent space visualizations. To facilitate community-wide
03334|A reassessment of bitterness-contributing agents in wild lupins
   > [no term] The use of lupin seeds as a novel food crop is confined due to their intrinsic bitterness, which presents a major barrier to broader consumption. This study re-evaluates bitterness contributors
03335|3D Hand Pose Estimation in Everyday Egocentric Images
   > signal, the challenges arising from perspective distortion and lack of 3D annotations in the wild have not been systematically studied. We focus on this gap … HaMeR on 3 out of 6 metrics while being 10x smaller and trained on 5x less data.
03336|Integrating ecological niche modeling and machine learning to optimize alfalfa variety deployment for climate-resilient forage systems
   > providing a framework that is applicable to the same crop types in other regions and moderately transferable to neighboring countries with similar ecological conditions.
03337|Hierarchical Physics-Informed Heterogeneous Graph Network-Based Optimal Energy Flow for Integrated Electricity–Heat Virtual Power Plants
   > asymmetric topologies and multi-timescale characteristics. Traditional data-driven models often fail to extract cross-domain coupling features and violate physical laws, yielding infeasible solutions. To address these … a lossless mapping mechanism transforms physical networks into a heterogeneous graph, utilizing generalized edge attributes and feature projection to resolve dimensional discrepanc
03338|Automating Visual Recognition of Leprosy in Wild Chimpanzees
   > [no term] Leprosy (Mycobacterium leprae) has been confirmed in wild western chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes verus) in West Africa, presenting as clear and progressive visual symptoms. Manual review of camera-trap footage at landscape
03339|Land use land cover change detection in Baghdad city for the years 2000 and 2024 using random forest algorithm
   > for image classification, and the land cover map was obtained in two different years (2000 and 2024), with overall accuracy of 88.33% and 90.83%, respectively. … to 67.98%, indicating significant population and economic growth. Whereas there was a decrease in green spaces, the percentage of vegetated land decreased from 32.56% to 9.09%, which indicates the diminishment of agricultural and green
03340|High-Performance Alloy Design of 10Cr Ferrite Steel: An Integrated Approach of Single-Objective Optimization and Machine Learning
   > [no abstract]
03341|GeoAI-Based PV Suitability Screening in India Using Remote Sensing, Presence-Background Learning, and Explainable Machine Learning
   > predictors, machine-learning models, a tabular PyTorch deep-learning model, exclusion masking, spatial validation, external inventory checks, and explainable AI. Using 2848 cleaned utility-scale solar reference points … PR-AUC = 0.591, and F1 = 0.513 under spatial holdout validation; grouped spatial cross-validation produced mean ROC-AUC = 0.776 ± 0.082, PR-AUC = 0.505 ±
03342|SmartCrop: An AI-Driven Web Platform for Disease Detection, Nutrient Recommendation, and Soil-Specific Crop Management in Chrysanthemum Cultivation in
   > [no term] Chrysanthemum (Chrysanthemum morifolium Ramat.) is a commercially dominant cut-flower crop in the Dindigul district of Tamil Nadu, India, where it is cultivated across diverse soil types spanning red loamy, black
03343|A Multi-Modal Deep Learning Framework with Both Sequence and Structure for Tumor Antigens Prediction
   > exhibited superior efficacy in predicting the immunogenicity of tumor antigens. Through comprehensive out-of-distribution (OOD) assessments, MultiTAP has maintained predictive robustness across diverse HLA phenotypes and
03344|Autoencoder-based composite drought indices
   > the decoding module since it was not necessary. All applied weights of different sites over a country can be unified into one weight, and the
03345|Reliability of rice yield monitoring under climate non-stationarity in Uganda: A hybrid modelling approach
   > Reliability was evaluated using out-of-sample predictive performance, statistical comparison, residual bias diagnostics, spatial transferability, climatic stress robustness, and spatial vulnerability under heterogeneous perturbation conditions. The … lowest systematic bias (mean error = 0.18), stable residual behaviour, and strong spatial transferability. Although Random Forest showed marginally l
03346|A Novel Computational Machine Learning Pipeline to Quantify Similarities in Three-Dimensional Protein Structures
   > as the similarity in the target protein. The current practice to address cross-species protein similarity relies on pair wise sequence comparison using protein sequences, instead
03347|Microglial Depletion Has No Impact on Disease Progression in a Mouse Model of Machado–Joseph Disease
   > [no term] Machado-Joseph disease (MJD), also known as spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3), is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder (ND). While most research in NDs has been following a neuron-centric point of
03348|Response to feature assessment of MOF biocompatibility should consider statistical approaches beyond machine learning models
   > [no abstract]
03349|CNN CLASSIFICATION OF SOYBEANS WITH STORAGE TIME BASED ON NEAR INFRARED SPECTROSCOPY
   > In soybeans from different years, the infrared spectroscopy waveforms exhibit similarities, yet variations in aging time … with Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) to establish models for classifying soybeans from different years (2019, 2020, and 2021). The research findings reveal the following: (1)
03350|Do changes in tree‐ring δ18O indicate changes in stomatal conductance?
   > models. We expect this promising modeling framework to be readily extended to other regions and deliver reliable estimates of δ18Oprep for retrospective research in tree-ring … of unenriched xylem water to the leaf lamina, consequently leading to a decrease in Δ18Olw (Guerrieri et al., 2019). However, more recent studies have yielded
03351|Diverse signatures of convergent evolution in cacti-associated yeasts
   > cacti. We inferred that the ecological association of yeasts with cacti arose independently ~17 times. Using machine-learning, we further found that cactophily can be predicted … We also identified horizontal gene transfer and duplication events of plant cell wall-degrading enzymes in distantly related cactophilic clades, suggesting that putatively adaptive traits evolved
03352|Fault Diagnosis in Hydrogen-Integrated Multi-Energy Industrial Parks Using a Transfer Learning-Enhanced CNN–LSTM: A Wastewater Treatment Plant Case St
   > [no abstract]
03353|Hyperspectral Knowledge-Guided Cross-Sensor Burned-Area Mapping: Distilling AVIRIS Semantics to Sentinel-2 and Landsat-8
   > cases without paired target observations but is not quantitatively evaluated. Under grouped leave-one-scene-out evaluation on five Landsat-8 scenes, the strongest 101-seed pairing—a transformer teacher and … F1 points and 5.53 IoU points, whereas Mamba-style results showed architecture-dependent gains. Independent evaluation across Australia, Chile, and Mediterranean islands showed that the lightw
03354|Predicting epistasis across proteins by structural logic
   > to predict intragenic complementation in ASL with 99.6% accuracy. Additionally, the model trained on ASL generalizes to a structurally related but sequence-divergent enzyme, fumarase, with accuracy over 90%.
03355|Accounting for nonlinear responses to traits improves range shift predictions
   > expectations, we identify dispersal and climatic niche traits as primary determinants of distribution shifts. Traits identified as important predictors and the direction of trait effects
03356|Genomic structure predicts metabolite dynamics in microbial communities
   > each member of the community possesses. Machine learning reveals a sparse and generalizable mapping from gene content to metabolite dynamics across a genomically-diverse library of
03357|Interpreting deep learning models for explainable animal detection using Grad-Cam with RetinaNet, SSD and YOLOv8
   > Using GPU acceleration, three object detection models YOLOv8(n)(n), SSD, and RetinaNet were trained on Google Colab and assessed using precision, recall, F1-score, and mean Average
03358|Soybean Productivity, Land Expansion, Climate, and Biotechnology in Bolivia
   > [no abstract]
03359|Drone-based aerial surveillance for detecting water hyacinth (Pontederia crassipes) using deep learning models
   > hyacinth detection using red, green, and blue (RGB) imagery. To assess model transferability, we evaluated trained models under 3 conditions: (1) on datasets from the … different season than the training images, and (3) on datasets from a different site but the same time period as the training images. All models
03360|Disentangling the Regional and Contextual Dependencies of Climate Effects on Global Maize Yield
   > one where main effects and interaction effects jointly amplified yield variability, and another where main effects were suppressed while interaction effects still amplified. Our findings
03361|Enhanced Security for Wireless Sensor Networks through Lightweight Machine Learning-Based Anomaly Detection and Attack Classification
   > accurate intrusion detection with strong classification consistency and minimal false alarm rates. Cross-dataset evaluation confirmed robust generalization, while hardware profiling demonstrated low memory usage and fast inference, making the
03362|YOLO-AUG: Enhancing Wildlife Monitoring on Far-Edge Devices With Dynamic Color-Space Augmentation and Efficient Learning
   > [no term] Edge and far-edge computing devices are increasingly employed in applications requiring localized, low-latency processing despite their limited computational resources. One such application is wild animal monitoring in agricultural environments, which
03363|A New Domain-Independent Approach for Classification of Bacteria, Fungus, and Virus-Infected Fruit and Leaf Images
   > and supporting food security. Most existing approaches are domain-specific and struggle to generalize across diverse plant organs or varying image qualities. To address this challenge, we propose a novel domain-independent classification framework that integrates quality-metric features—Mean Squared Error (MSE), Peak Signal-to-Noise Ratio … CNN architecture. Extensive experiments conducted on the 
03364|Climate-robust evaluation of alfalfa seed maturity via an EMD-guided deep learning framework using multispectral imaging
   > learning baselines (e.g., ResNet18, 88%). However, this high intra-year performance did not generalize; direct model transfer to a different year caused accuracy to collapse to 41%, quantifying a profound domain shift. To mitigate this, We proposed an innovative Earth Mover's Distance (EMD)-guided … biologically plausible spectral correlates associated with seed maturation. Our work presents a gen
03365|Does enforcing physics improve evapotranspiration downscaling? A controlled comparison of mass-conserving and direct deep-learning models for WaPOR
   > [no abstract]
03366|The Neurobeachin‐like 2 protein ( NBEAL2 ) controls the homeostatic level of the ribosomal protein RPS6 in mast cells
   > in the development of an abnormal MC phenotype characterised by prolonged growth factor‐independent survival and in a pro‐inflammatory MC‐phenotype.
03367|Improvement of class separability and generalization in tomato ripeness classification using transfer learning–based feature representations
   > [no abstract]
03368|Machine learning-enabled label-free SERS for microbial sensing: Toward robust, generalizable, and deployable workflows
   > predominantly between 2021 and 2026, spanning bacterial, viral, fungal, other microbial, and cross-domain applications. The literature was analyzed as an end-to-end workflow comprising target and … datasets accounted for 68.2% of studies, 62.0% included no more than 25 independent biological units, and large spectral datasets frequently reflected intensive within-sample replication. Moreover, 68.2
03369|LSTM-CNN Hybrid Deep Learning Architecture for Predictive Maintenance and Remaining Useful Life Estimation in Rotating Industrial Machinery
   > race fault, gear tooth fracture) and continuous RUL estimation. The model is trained on the CWRU Bearing Dataset supplemented by data from a purpose-built test rig at IIT Bombay that introduces progressive bearing degradation under controlled load and speed conditions representative of Indian industrial duty cycles. … Munich collaboration contributes transfer learning validation on BMW Group gearb
03370|Acoustic signatures in Mexican cavefish populations inhabiting different caves
   > [no term] Complex patterns of acoustic communication exist throughout the animal kingdom, including underwater. The river-dwelling and the Pachón cave-adapted morphotypes of the fish Astyanax mexicanus are soniferous and share a repertoire
03371|Volatile Fingerprinting and Interpretable Machine Learning for Quality Differentiation of Astragali Radix from Different Cultivation Patterns
   > support future rapid screening, cultivation-pattern authentication, and volatile-profile-based differentiation of AR, pending independent external validation.
03372|Explainable Morphometric Machine Learning for Species Delimitation in Senna (Fabaceae): A Methodological Review and Illustrative Framework
   > used to demonstrate reporting and governance requirements and are not treated as independent evidence of species boundaries or taxonomic novelty. The literature indicates that machine … remains vulnerable to label error, geographic and institutional bias, missing reproductive organs, domain shift, class imbalance and shortcut learning. Accordingly, classifier confidence should not be
03373|MeaningFlux: Linking Machine Learning and Information Theory for Eddy Covariance Data Interpretation and Model Evaluation
   > covariance flux data and produces standardized outputs for transparent site-level analysis and cross-site synthesis.
03374|Evaluation of RGB Imaging and a Two-Stage Machine Learning Pipeline for SPAD-Based Relative Chlorophyll Estimation in Controlled-Environment
   > alongside a Konica Minolta SPAD-502 meter. All models were evaluated under strict Leave-One-Plant-Out cross-validation (LOPO-CV), with Plant ID used exclusively as the grouping variable for … that the bottleneck is not primarily RGB-to-NDVI estimation error but limited NDVI–SPAD transferability across unseen plants at this sample size. Ridge regression reduces negative R² values (measured
03375|An Optimized Bayesian Algorithm for Continuous Water Quality Monitoring at Different Locations in a Dam Reservoir Using Spatial and Temporal Pixels of
   > Introduction: Water quality monitoring in different locations of a dam reservoir is a challenging task. Manual and laboratory … Regression (BO-MR) approach. Results: The BO-MR predicted water quality parameters in the different locations of the dam have an average accuracy of about 91% and
03376|CNN-Modal Learning for Cordyceps sinensis Authentication in High-value Agricultural Products: Mapping from 2D Surface Textures to 3D Tomographic Featu
   > [no abstract]
03377|A Multi-Modal Deep Learning Framework for Chromosomal Abnormality Diagnosis Using Neuro-Inference Predictive Network
   > approaches often rely on either chromosome image analysis or facial phenotype assessment independently, limiting their ability to exploit complementary genomic and phenotypic information. Existing multimodal methods also suffer from inadequate cross-domain feature alignment, inefficient heterogeneous feature fusion, limited interpretability, and suboptimal optimization, resulting in reduced predic
03378|A Federated Learning Based Uncertainty-Aware Framework via Paillier Homomorphic Encryption for Tomato Leaf Disease Classification
   > [no abstract]
03379|Interpretable machine learning classification of cedar and cypress pollen on routine Durham slides for environmental exposure assessment
   > can distinguish intact cedar and cypress pollen on routine Durham slides under real-world conditions, while burst pollen remains a major source of classification difficulty. Further
03380|DEEP LEARNING-BASED ASSESSMENT OF IPSC PLURIPOTENCY AND PHENOTYPIC OUTPUTS FOR NON-DESTRUCTIVE MANUFACTURING ANALYTICS
   > [no abstract]
03381|Ecosystem Controlling Using Identification of Animal Based on Deep Learning and GLCM (Gray Level Co-occurrence Matrix) Method
   > [no term] Indonesia is the largest country in Southeast Asia. Plantations in Indonesia are still traditionally and use irrigation systems that are housed in reservoirs and ponds. While plantations in West Java
03382|Estimation of chlorophyll content in the canopy of Malus sieversii based on unmanned aerial vehicle hyperspectral imaging combined with machine learni
   > predictive accuracy of the XGBoost (R2=0.725), KNN (R2=0.729), and GBDT (R2=0.645) models decreased in sequence, among which the GBDT model exhibited significant overfitting. Based on
03383|Evaluating Methods for the Prediction of Cell Type-Specific Enhancers in the Mammalian Cortex
   > Initiative Cell Census Network (BICCN) Challenge: Predicting Functional Cell Type-Specific Enhancers from Cross-Species Multi-Omics’ to assess machine learning and feature-based methods designed to nominate enhancer
03384|Spatiotemporal Variability in Rainfall Erosivity and Its Teleconnection with Atmospheric Circulation Indices in China
   > associated with teleconnection indices, but the impact of these indices varies in different regions. The Western Hemisphere Warm Pool has the greatest impact on the
03385|Estimating small-grain cereal plant density at early growth stages using leaf tip density dynamics derived from submillimeter-scale RGB imagery
   > manual counting, most of them rely on empirical relationships that may not generalize well to different sites, growth stages, species and varieties. In this study, we propose a
03386|Sentinel Eye: Wild Animal Intrusion Detection Using IOT
   > [no term] This project focuses on solving the common problem of wild animals entering farms and causing damage to crops and property. Farmers living near forest areas often face losses because of
03387|Combination of suspect and nontarget screening with exposure assessment for per- and polyfluoroalkyl substance prioritization in Chinese municipal was
   > and the PFAS risk in eastern China was higher than that in other regions. This study offers novel insights for the identification and priority control
03388|A Fast Rotation Detection Network with Parallel Interleaved Convolutional Kernels
   > geometric symmetry preservation, such as dense target clusters and extreme scale variations. Cross-domain validation on agricultural pest datasets further verifies its rotational symmetry generalization capability, demonstrating 84.90% accuracy in fine-grained orientation-sensitive detection tasks.
03389|Assessing trends and forecasting meteorological drought in South Africa using Savitzky–Golay enhanced hybrid deep learning
   > were evaluated employing Innovative Trend Analysis (ITA) methods, which identified statistically significant decreasing trends at five stations and an increasing trend at Riverview. To augment … aim to extend the model to incorporate additional climatic drivers, evaluate its transferability across diverse climatic regions, and investigate its application in operational drought early-warning
03390|Heterogeneous SNN-ANN Multimodal Fusion Framework for Comprehensive Fruit Quality Assessment
   > signals to extract internal sugar-related features, whereas the ANN-based TH-YOLOv8 model detects external surface defects from high-resolution RGB images. A microsecond-level synchronous acquisition scheme is … with image-only detection, the proposed framework explicitly separates internal biochemical sensing from external defect localization and then integrates their complementary decisions in a
03391|Estimating Small-Grain Cereal Plant Density at Early Growth Stages Using Leaf Tip Density Dynamics Derived from Rgb Imagery and Thermal Time
   > [no abstract]
03392|Automating the bottleneck: a scalable deep learning pipeline for phytolith detection, imaging, and curation across single-cell and multi-cell morphoty
   > 55,450% improvement in TIFF export speed, enabling sustained high-throughput acquisition without performance degradation. The workflow was designed to optimize imaging of mixed multi-cell and single-cell
03393|A Phenology-Guided Multi-Source Framework for In-Season Rice Mapping in Cloud-Prone and Complex Agroecosystems
   > seasonally, with F1-score rising from 0.82 in May to 0.97 at harvest. Cross-region validation in Taishan (Guangdong) and Panjin (Liaoning) showed that the earliest identifiable … Hunan due to Hunan’s more complex triple-cropping phenology, highlighting the model’s strong transferability. Furthermore, MSDF-RiceID outperformed existing products (TWDTW-Rice and EARice10), increasing overall accuracy 
03394|In Regard to Reber et al
   > of data is essential for robust predictive models and to mitigate the domain shift problem, especially for DL models. We are currently coordinating a multicenter … allowing for training of more robust ML and DL models and, importantly, external validation. We look forward to reporting our findings and seeing the results
03395|Detection of flood zones using machine learning algorithms and remote sensing to determine the area of land under flood damage (case study: March 2019
   > combined with the images used.Different parameters of each algorithm were evaluated using spatial cross-validation to determine their effect on classification accuracy and to prevent optimistic … to the use of the ensemble learning method has higher accuracy and generalizability than other support vector machine and neural network algorithms with an accuracy
03396|High-resolution microCT reveals relationships between stomata and interior leaf anatomy in sorghum
   > [no term] Stomata are pores in the leaf epidermis that regulate the trade-off between CO2 uptake for photosynthesis and water vapor loss to the atmosphere. Stomatal patterning therefore influences water use efficiency
03397|Integrating spectral and morphological plant features with decision-tree models for early-season cotton biomass and nitrogen status estimation from mu
   > combining spectral reflectance, PH, and FCC were evaluated using trial-held-out (THO) and leave-one-year-out (LOYO) validation methods. The best validation accuracies were from RFRTHO (R2 =
03398|Intellectual face and face mask detection system using adaptive deep learning and optimized ensemble residual learning network
   > [no abstract]
03399|Accelerated Haustoria Segmentation Enables Rapid Gene Function Analysis in Cereal–Powdery Mildew Pathosystems
   > captured with a commercial scanner, focus-projected, tiled, and analyzed by deep-learning models trained on expertly annotated datasets. A You Only Look Once ( YOLO) network … near-perfect agreement with manual counts in both barley and wheat, demonstrating robust cross-species transferability. By delivering single-cell readouts with minimal user input, the pipeline enables rapid
03400|Cross-Frequency Calibration of Multi-Sensor SAR Data Using Machine Learning Techniques for Surface Soil Moisture Retrieval
   > specifically leveraging SAOCOM (L-band) and RADARSAT Constellation Mission (RCM) (C-band) datasets. A domain adaptation approach is employed to transfer knowledge from SAOCOM to RCM, enabling … confirmed through Bland-Altman and Q-Q plots. This framework enhances the scalability and generalizability of SSM retrieval, offering practical applications in drought monitoring, flood prediction, and irri
03401|From pixels to protection: a multimodal AI framework for early and scalable wheat disease detection
   > [no abstract]
03402|MetaFormer-Based Novel Block Combinations for Classification of Olive Fruit Diseases
   > using substantially fewer parameters. In addition to standard evaluation, robustness under realistic domain shifts—such as blur, illumination changes, and colour distortions—is explicitly assessed, revealing that certain block orderings provide improved generalization stability under distribution shifts. Furthermore, a comprehensive resource-efficiency analysis shows that the proposed models offer
03403|A PRISMA-guided systematic review of artificial intelligence techniques for fruit diseases detection
   > drones. However, practical application is heavily hindered by data scarcity and poor cross-domain generalization. In addition, moving these systems from the lab to the farm is
03404|Salt stress-induced alterations of photosynthesis and growth are associated with microRNA-mediated transcriptome regulatory networks in cotton
   > transcriptional regulation of photosynthesis and carbon fixation, whereas 204 showed a more generalised response to salt stress. Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis (WGCNA) identified three
03405|Mapping African Swine Fever and Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza Outbreaks along the Demilitarized Zone in the Korean Peninsula
   > [no term] The Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) is one of the world's most preserved habitats for wild animals and migratory birds. The area also plays a major role in the spread of
03406|Postprocessing of convection permitting precipitation forecast using UNets
   > one incorporating all 25 km-scale convection-permitting ensemble forecast simulations as input, and another applying dimensionality reduction techniques to reduce input complexity. These models were compared … for the set of available meteorological stations was considered, but also the generalization capacity of the UNet models to obtain precipitation predictions for the whole
03407|Trade-off between resistance and persistence in high cell density cultures
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Bacterial growth to high cell densities is commonly observed in infections, microbiomes, and biomanufacturing, yet there is limited understanding of how transcriptional regulation changes to balance between growth and
03408|A comprehensive analysis of more than a century of research on red palm weevil, Rhynchophorus ferrugineus: trends, gaps, and future directions
   > industry. • Earlier publications on the RPW overlooked its potential to invade new regions. • The number of publications has increased sharply over the past
03409|Bayesian Optimisation-Based Solar Power Forecasting Model and Its Analysis of Interpretability
   > developed and uniformly optimised using Bayesian optimisation. Under a unified framework of data partitioning, optimisation budget, and evaluation metrics, the predictive performance of all models
03410|CEG-YOLO: A lightweight edge-optimized framework for in-field rice panicle counting
   > to 0.94 for planting density, and 0.90 to 0.94 for cultivar. A cross-year field test using an NVIDIA Jetson Orin NX edge device on 120
03411|An LED-based multispectral discrete spectrometer for in-situ soil moisture sensing using machine learning algorithms
   > [no abstract]
03412|A Comparative Benchmark of Real-time Detectors for Blueberry Detection towards Precision Orchard Management
   > of 94.8%. More in-depth research into SSL is needed to better leverage cross-domain unlabeled data. Both the dataset and software programs of this study are
03413|A hierarchical BYOL-based deep learning framework for explainable leaf disease recognition utilizing self-supervised learning and symptom preserving
   > representation refinement and quantitatively assessed augmentation for label-efficient leaf disease classification, while external validation remains necessary before broader cross-crop or field-level deployment.
03414|High-Precision Real-Time Wheat Head Counting via Enhanced Feature Pyramids
   > contrast enhancement, Gaussian filtering, and median filtering to improve input quality under real-world conditions. The model leverages a Residual Network and Feature Pyramid Network (ResNet … and inference time of 95 ms per frame. Statistical analysis across five independent runs shows a low standard deviation (±0.18) and a significant p-value (<0.01)
03415|Optimising the automated recognition of individual animals to support population monitoring
   > [no term] Reliable estimates of population size and demographic rates are central to assessing the status of threatened species. However, obtaining individual-based demographic rates requires long-term data, which is often costly and
03416|Raman Spectroscopy Pre-Trained Encoder: A Self-Supervised Learning Approach for Data-Efficient Domain-Independent Spectroscopy Analysis
   > impacted Natural Language Processing and Computer Vision with their ability to learn transferable representations that can be applied to a variety of datasets, significantly reducing … The proposed approach, RSPTE (Raman Spectroscopy Pre-Trained Encoder), is designed to learn generalizable spectral representations without labels. RSPTE employs a novel domain adaptation strategy using unsupervised 
03417|Fusing very high-resolution aerial imagery with Sentinel-1 and Sentinel-2 time series improves multi-year orchard type classification
   > multi-year dataset rather than a single seasonal cycle, we specifically evaluate model generalization and temporal robustness against inter-annual variability in phenology and imaging conditions. The … mid-fusion deep-learning model (integrating spatial-structural and spectral-temporal modalities), under the same-year and cross-year (leave-one-year-out) scenarios. The satellite stream is modeled w
03418|Machine Learning and Metabolomics to Characterize Warburg-Like Metabolic Subtypes in Human Retinal Endothelial Cells Exposed to Risk Factors Associate
   > K-Nearest Neighbors, neural network, gradient boosting, AdaBoost, and Support Vector Machine) were trained on the highest-ranked metabolites selected by the Information Gain Ratio feature-ranking approach. Model performance was evaluated using 10-fold cross-validation, leave-one-out cross-validation (LOOCV), permutation testing, and a classifier stability analysis under biologically meaningful dis
03419|Small-Sample Prediction and Uncertainty Assessment of Soil Organic Carbon Content in Cropland of the Liaohe Plain Based on the TabPFN Model
   > prediction is often constrained by limited field observations, which can reduce model generalizability and predictive reliability. In this study, we developed a limited-sample SOC prediction … evaluated using 100 repetitions of random 80:20 holdout validation and repeated five-fold spatial cross-validation based on spatially constrained clustering, while sampling-induced relative uncertainty was q
03420|LPDiag: LLM-Enhanced Multimodal Prototype Learning Framework for Intelligent Tomato Leaf Disease Diagnosis
   > variability, making accurate identification challenging for conventional deep learning models, especially under real-world conditions with diverse lighting, occlusion, and growth stages. Moreover, most existing approaches
03421|Evaluating water availability and flow characteristics for Dikrong river in Arunachal Pradesh using Acoustic Doppler Current Profiler
   > [no abstract]
03422|Unsupervised machine learning identifies latent pyrenoid states linked to mitotic remodeling defects and CO 2 -dependent growth
   > broad defects and phenotypes that became more apparent as CO 2 supply decreased. Insertion-site mapping nominated candidate loci, including STT7 , which encodes a chloroplast kinase best known for regulating photosynthetic light harvesting. Independent STT7 -edited lines lacked detectable STT7 accumulation and showed pyrenoid-region reconstruction-error patterns, … but showed defects during mitoti
03423|Spatial organization and environmental niche modeling of Goguryeo archaeological sites in Northeast China: integrating GIS and machine learning approa
   > predictive performance, with training AUC = 0.89, testing AUC = 0.86, and spatial cross-validation AUC = 0.84. Elevation, river distance, and agricultural potential were the
03424|Peter Dauvergne. AI in the Wild: Sustainability in the Age of Artificial Intelligence
   > AI in the Wild: Sustainability in the Age of Artificial Intelligence, by Peter Dauvergne, … (AI) and sustainability.From robots saving coral reefs, to machine learning (ML) systems trained on TensorFlow fighting deforestation, Dauvergne offers chapter after chapter of bold examples
03425|Real-World Evidence and Machine Learning for Predictive Oncology and Clinical Decision Support: A Critical Narrative Review
   > design, while machine-learning models can amplify measurement error, confounding, selection effects and distribution shift. This critical narrative review evaluates the evidence linking real-world evidence and … concordance, simulation and workflow outcomes rather than patient benefit. Across the literature, external validation, calibration, outcome validity, transportability and separation of pro
03426|Patterns of nutrients and algal biomass in an intermittent Mediterranean river under intense human activity
   > of water quality, physicochemical characteristics and algal biomass were collected at 23 different locations over 14 months, coinciding with the onset of drought conditions in
03427|Genomic language models improve cross-species gene expression prediction and accurately capture regulatory variant effects in Brachypodium mutant line
   > regulatory features. First, we evaluated our models to predict gene expression on unseen gene families via cross-validation, demonstrating our model’s prediction accuracy across all species
03428|WSD-YOLO: A lightweight YOLO-based model with enhanced feature representation for maize pest detection
   > of 78.77% (79.7% with seed = 42) and averaged mAP@0.5:0.95 of 52.63%. Cross-dataset evaluations on the Tomato Pest&Diseases and IP102 datasets further confirm the model's strong generalization capability.
03429|Risk-bounded Bayesian–conformal diagnosis-and-prognosis of nuclear power plant accidents with distribution-free coverage guarantees
   > [no abstract]
03430|PINN-XAF-MTL: A Multi-Modal Deep Learning Framework Integrating Novel Physics-Informed Cross-Attention Fusion for Predicting Multi-Environment Hybrid 
   > the "Diallel Sparsity Paradox," population structure confounding, data privacy barriers, and the out-of-distribution generalization failures of models facing climate anomalies. To resolve these, we propose the
03431|Sentinel imagery detects the presence of live trees following large wildfires in California
   > attributed to pixels with green understory vegetation but no live trees. In cross-site inference, which involved pooling two sites for model calibration to test on
03432|Pharmacogenetics—Not Just Low‐Hanging Fruit
   > to a deficiency in CYP3A5 activity in 80–85% of the population, while another loss-of-function allele (CYP3A5*6) is common in the sub-Saharan population but rare in … data-imputation tasks. Imputation of missing data is commonly followed by covariate selection, another key component investigated by the authors. Here, machine learning and dimensionality reduction
03433|Operational Value of Earth Observation and Reanalysis Predictors for Subnational Maize Yield Forecasting in Nigeria
   > a Random Forest model with a predictor-block ablation design evaluated under strict Leave-One-Year-Out cross-validation, this study isolates the marginal contribution of four EO inputs: MODIS
03434|OPTIFARM: Benchmarking YOLO Architectures for Location-Robust Potato Quality Detection
   > conducted across three practical quality classes (Edible, Feed, Rotten) using a strict cross-location evaluation protocol in which models were trained on one location and tested on a completely unseen second location. All models achieved strong in-distribution performance (F1 ≥ 0.906), but showed considerable variation under cross-location conditions, with external F1 ranging from 0.792 to 0.918. 
03435|Process-aware SSA-Conv-PatchTST for robust multi-horizon aeration-demand forecasting in full-scale wastewater treatment plants
   > sensitivity testing, scenario-oriented assessment, offline forecast-informed supervisory-signal analysis, bootstrap significance testing, and cross-dataset validation on an independent public WWTP aeration dataset. SSA-Conv-PatchTST achieved the best overall accuracy, reducing MAE/RMSE … and reduced missed-increase rates by 28.6%, 36.1%, and 25.1% relative to PatchTST. Cross-dataset validation sho
03436|Techniques and Methods for Fatty Acid Analysis in Lipidomics: Exploring Pinus cembroides Kernels as a Sustainable Food Resource
   > [no term] The large-scale conversion of forests to agriculture has caused biodiversity loss, climate change, and disrupted dietary fatty acid balances, with adverse public health effects. Wild edibles like pine nuts, especially
03437|Multi-omics and machine-learning framework identifies a candidate three-gene prognostic signature (PTGFRN, MICB, and IFI16) for oral squamous cell car
   > and signalling interactions of the signature. Clinical relevance was explored in an independent cohort of 37 OSCC patients. This approach identified a three-gene candidate prognostic … in training, 0.795 [95% CI 0.627–0.928] in internal validation, and 0.683 in cross-dataset validation). SHAP analysis identified PTGFRN as the most influential contributor to individual
03438|Distributed Intelligence in the Artificial Intelligence of Things: A Review of Artificial Intelligence Workload Placement Across the Device-Edge-Fog-C
   > emphasize specific computational layers, learning paradigms, or application domains rather than the cross-domain problem of Artificial Intelligence (AI) workload placement under real deployment constraints. This
03439|Future multi-dimensional drought analysis using machine learning and geospatial approaches: a case study of Tiruchirappalli District, Tamil Nadu, Indi
   > [no abstract]
03440|Deep Learning–Driven Visual Intelligence for Chemical Instrument Monitoring: A Scoping Review From an Expert Systems Perspective
   > are identified, including data scarcity due to proprietary industrial datasets, limited model generalization across dynamic environments, computational constraints in real‐time deployment, and the lack of … systems for chemical operations. Emerging trends are discussed, including synthetic data generation, domain adaptation, foundation models (e.g., SAM and open‐vocabulary detection), and multimod
03441|Performance Evaluation of Support Vector Machine and Stacked Autoencoder for Hyperspectral Image Analysis
   > Autoencoder (SAE). We wanted to understand which approach works better under different real-world conditions that researchers and practitioners face. Through extensive experiments across five diverse
03442|A Dataset on Corn Silage in China Used to Establish a Prediction Model Showing Variation in Nutrient Composition
   > this study was to estimate the discrepancy in nutritional content and rumen degradation in WPCS grown in various regions and to propose a novel analytical … silage (WPCS). The Zhengdan 958 cultivar of WPCS was selected from eight different sites to compare the discrepancies in nutrients and rumen degradation. A total of 974 WPCS samples from 235 dairy farms scattered across
03443|An integrated influence of transport connectivity on rural development in Qinling Mountainous Area, China:Based on interpretable spatial machine learn
   > [no abstract]
03444|Machine learning-based estimation and model transferability of soil organic carbon using ground, airborne and satellite hyperspectral remote sensing
   > [no abstract]
03445|Host genetics maps to behaviour and brain structure in developmental mice
   > [no term] Gene-environment interactions in the postnatal period have a long-term impact on neurodevelopment. To effectively assess neurodevelopment in the mouse, we developed a behavioural pipeline that incorporates several validated behavioural tests
03446|An automated deep learning-based pipeline for 3D characterisation of the murine upper airway from micro-CT
   > scans from a DS study involving wild-type (WT) and trisomic (TS) mice. Generalisability was assessed on an external validation set of 74 scans from another DS study examining the effect of RSV infection in WT and TS … for trachea, pharynx and nasal cavity, respectively. Performance remained robust on the external validation set, confirming generalisability across different experimental conditions 
03447|Aboveground biomass estimation and multiscale spatial pattern analysis in desert rangelands using UAV hyperspectral imagery
   > accuracy (R2=0.914). As grazing intensity increased, AGB generally declined, while its spatial distribution shifted from a relatively homogeneous pattern to increasingly heterogeneous and patchy patterns.
03448|A Dual-Ensemble Machine Learning Framework for Coconut Yield Projection Under CMIP6 Climate Scenarios in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands
   > composite skill scores across rainfall, Tmax, and Tmin. Model selection was optimized independently for each district via Leave-One-Year-Out cross-validation with hyperparameter tuning, yielding district-specific best performers: GradientBoost for North and
03449|Deep learning of 777 K bulk transcriptomes reveals human–mouse gene conservation beyond DNA sequence similarity
   > similarity at both DNA and RNA levels, suggesting a high risk of cross-species discrepancies. Our approach also identifies long noncoding RNA homologs based on cross-species RNA conservation. These results provide a resource for evaluating the suitability of
03450|Physics-Guided Deep Learning and Geospatial Aggregation for Photovoltaic Panel Detection and Duplicate-Free Counting in Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Imager
   > 99.2% plant-level counting accuracy, compared with 75.1% for image stitching. On an independent held-out desert-site dataset containing approximately 45,000 panel instances, the Site-A-trained model was … retained 72.8% AP@0.5 and 98.4% plant-level counting accuracy. Component, attention, regional-counting, layout, cross-site, and runtime experiments further evaluated the framework. Final-pass thr
03451|Automated Identification of Citizen Science Observations for Ecological Studies
   > this talk, we will synthesize the results of this study and present another one related to phenology. Indeed, as the phenological stage of the observed
03452|Automated detection of defective coffee beans based on improved YOLOv10 framework
   > proposed architecture integrates three targeted structural innovations: Depthwise Separable Convolution (DSConv) with distribution shift for lightweight, fine-grained feature extraction; a Spatial Pyramid Pooling Fast with … improvements over the advanced YOLOv11 baseline, simultaneously reducing model parameters by 21.6%, decreasing model size by 12.4%, and accelerating inference by 33.3%. Furthe
03453|Transferability of pedotransfer functions for estimating soil hydraulic properties: An analysis of controlling factors for forest soils in Switzerland
   > is controversial. In this study, we analyse the controlling factors affecting PTF transferability across forest soils in Switzerland, focusing on confounders, and the entire modelling … the Swiss Central Plateau to create new PTFs (SwiPT). These were then transferred, alongside existing European PTFs, to forest soils of another Swiss region (Valais), which is topographically, climatically, and geo
03454|Recurrence eigenvalues of movements from brain signals
   > [no term] The ability to characterize muscle activities or skilled movements controlled by signals from neurons in the motor cortex of the brain has many useful implications, ranging from biomedical perspectives to
03455|A hierarchical prototype-graph with optimal-transport matching for few-shot rice disease recognition
   > Networks, MAML, ProtoNet, RelationNet, SimpleShot, FEAT, and a flat optimal-transport variant. In cross-domain evaluation, the model demonstrates strong generalization capability, attaining up to 91.7% accuracy and 90.6% macro-F1 when transferring across
03456|Non-invasive diagnosis of H3 K27M mutant midline glioma
   > These tumors carry a worse prognosis compared with H3 K27M wild-type tumors independent of tumor location.2 Since diffuse midline gliomas are commonly located in deep … the current radiomic prediction model needs to be validated on datasets from external sites to demonstrate its generalizability. Moreover, the radiomic model is derived from preselected training data that do
03457|Digital Soil Mapping of the Steppe Zone in Northern Kazakhstan: Predicting Agrochemical Properties of Soils Using Multimodal Satellite Data and Machin
   > All models were evaluated using three spatial validation strategies with increasing stringency: Leave-One-Field-Out CV (LOFO-CV), Leave-One-Farm-Out CV (Farm-LOFO), and an optimized spatial split. We propose a three-level hierarchical
03458|Glucose-modulating potential of Indocalamus latifolius leaves revealed by metabolomics, interpretable machine learning, and β-cell validation
   > [no abstract]
03459|REDNET-ML: A Multi-Sensor Machine Learning Pipeline for Harmful Algal Bloom Risk Detection Along the Omani Coast
   > evaluation using AUROC/AUPRC, confusion matrices, calibration curves, and drift analyses that quantify distribution shift in recent years.
03460|Locus-Specific Degree of Dominance Transformed XGBoost coupled with Environmental Variables for Genomic Prediction in Hybrid Maize
   > [no abstract]
03461|Bridging Science and Policy through the Use of Earth Observation Data and Deep Learning Methods for Environmental Policy Support in Flanders
   > resources needed from the end-user for monitoring compliance with this environmental regulation. Another distinctive feature of the project was specifically its emphasis on participatory design … workflows developed within the GEO.INFORMED framework can be adapted for use in other regions and contexts, further amplifying their impact. In conclusion, the GEO.INFORMED project
03462|CTFL-Net: A Wavelet-Enhanced CNN-Transformer model for rice LAI estimation from UAV RGB imagery
   > CTFL-Net reduced background interference and alleviated the RGB saturation tendency in this cross-year evaluation. Across three independent cross-year test sets, the model achieved stable R 2 values ranging from 0.83
03463|Machine learning-enhanced behavioral profiling improves phenotypic screening in a genetic mouse model of autism spectrum disorder
   > [no term] Aim: Genetic factors are major contributors to neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism spectrum disorder. Genetically modified animal models are widely used, yet behavioral phenotyping often relies on coarse metrics that
03464|Airborne Hyperspectral Data Application in Stress Detection of Blueberry Fields and Ash Trees
   > [no term] Water management and irrigation practices are persistent challenges for many agricultural systems. Changing seasonal and weather patterns impose a greater need for understanding crop deficiencies and excesses (e.g. water, sunlight,
03465|Modelling Local Strontium Isotope Baselines from Human Isotopic Data Using Machine Learning: Implications for Past Mobility Studies
   > layer that integrates classifier outputs and refines local/non-local probability estimates. MobSr was trained on a dataset of approximately 3000 human enamel samples from 86 archaeological … enables broader exploration of expert-derived locality assignments across predominantly sedentary populations from different regions and periods.
03466|Deep learning-guided engineering of phospholipase A2 for enhanced catalytic properties and efficient heterologous expression in Bacillus subtilis
   > [no abstract]
03467|Mitigating Cross-Dataset Feature Shifts via a Multi-Loss Self-Reconstruction Filter: A Correction-Detection Framework for UAV-Based Yuzu Detection
   > [no abstract]
03468|Metaheuristic Optimized Fuzzy Ensemble for Maize Seed Quality Prediction Using Vis/NIR Spectroscopy
   > 800 maize seed samples from four varieties under laboratory conditions, which limits generalization to field environments. Future work will focus on multi-location validation, domain adaptation, and real-time implementation. Overall, the proposed framework provides a statistically validated
03469|Applying LSTM to Model Multi‐Depth Soil Moisture Under Various Land Covers, Climates and Soils
   > reliability of the trained model remains unknown when it is applied to different locations. Therefore, the objective of this study was to evaluate the widely
03470|Estimation of Winter Wheat Chlorophyll Content Based on Hyperspectral Remote Sensing and Cross-Regional Transfer Learning
   > photosynthetic capacity and nitrogen nutrient status. However, models trained in one region (source domain) often suffer significant performance degradation when applied to another region (target domain) due to "domain shift" caused by differences in soil, climate, and management practices. This study proposed a robust adaptive transfer learning framework (RATL) to mitigate domain shift in cross-r
03471|Advancing Sub-Seasonal to Seasonal Streamflow Forecasting in Canada: A Review of Conventional and Emerging Approaches for Operational Applications
   > of Canada, and can also be used for developing similar tools for other regions of the world. Apart from discussing various modeling challenges, data availability
03472|Using GeoAI and machine learning tools for consistent high-resolution land cover mapping based on time-series NAIP imagery
   > GeoAI/Machine Learning (ML) tools based on time-series NAIP imagery, and (2) address cross-year sensor characteristic shifts without relying on historical training samples. Methods: We designed
03473|Enrichment analysis of phenotypic data for drug repurposing in rare diseases
   > [no term] Drug-induced Behavioral Signature Analysis (DBSA), is a machine learning (ML) method for in silico screening of compounds, inspired by analytical methods quantifying gene enrichment in genomic analyses. When applied to
03474|High-resolution SVBRDF estimation based on deep inverse rendering from two-shot images
   > [no abstract]
03475|Neuron network prediction of damage of E. integriceps bug on winter wheat in Ukraine
   > expectation of 25%, which is confirmed by the results of observations for other regions of the Steppe zone. The relationship between the number of E.
03476|Machine Learning Applications In Diesel Engine Emissions Control: A Systematic Review of Predictive Modeling, Adaptive Control, and Real-Time Optimiza
   > by hybrid physics-ML architectures, which consistently outperform purely data-driven approaches on the out-of-distribution conditions most critical for regulatory compliance—by up to 7 percentage points in … with the strongest combined case for accuracy, extrapolation fidelity, and regulatory interpretability. Cross-domain evidence from IoT-based environmental monitoring, AI-augmented engineering 
03477|Evolution of cardiac function in COVID 19 patients in the intensive care unit: insights from machine learning
   > status. Regression was used to estimate the echo and clinical characteristics of different regions in the space. Patient trajectories in the output space were investigated
03478|Peach Orchard Identification Using Multi-Temporal Sentinel-2 NIR–SWIR Features: A Case Study of Ganyu District, Lianyungang, China
   > feature importance assessed differences, stability, and feature contributions; the 2023 model was transferred to 2025 imagery. Results showed phenological dependence, with leaf-off and early-spring performance … and peach orchard F1-score = 94.34% ± 2.27%. At fixed validation locations, cross-year transfer achieved OA = 90.184% and Kappa = 0.863, indicating temporal transfer potential within the f
03479|Big (pig) data and the internet of the swine things: a new paradigm in the industry
   > be improved using tracking devices for farm staff, recording movements real-time to decrease disease risks and consequently, improve health and productive performance. The present work … and therefore of little value to generate knowledge for strategic decision making. Another improvable aspect is the limited amount of or lack of data support
03480|Cardiometabolic disease risk in gorillas is associated with altered gut microbial metabolism
   > fermentation, at the expense of microbial metabolic traits associated with plant cell-wall degradation. Machine learning models identified unique microbial traits in U.S. gorillas with cardiometabolic
03481|OATS-RS: Ontology-Aware Adaptive and Selective Zero-Shot Scene Classification for Remote Sensing
   > Zero-shot remote sensing is attractive for scene classification because new regions, sensors, and label taxonomies often appear before sufficient annotated data are
03482|Groundwater Storage Analysis using Geospatial Techniques: A Comprehensive Review over Asian Region
   > along with different modern techniques to analyse groundwater storage (GWS) variations across different regions of the Asian continent.When GRACE data are integrated with in-situ well … a rate of -1.06 ± 0.59 km³/year between 2003 and 2007.Similarly, significant decreases in GWS were observed in the eastern region of the United Arab
03483|Wild Guard: Solar Powered Animal Intrusion Detection and Alert System
   > [no term] Abstract—Monitoring animal movement and health is a critical component of veterinary science, livestock management, and wildlife conservation, particularly in regions where human-animal interactions are frequent. This paper presents a solar-powered
03484|Contrasting the Microbial Communities in Rhizosphere and Bulk Soils Across Different Eucommia ulmoides Planting Sites and Their Soil Chemical Driving 
   > function, and microbial diversity plays a vital role in sustaining it. However, cross-site rhizosphere and bulk SMF disparities and their microbial driving mechanisms remain unclear
03485|Artificial Intelligence in Natural Product Antidiabetic Drug Discovery: From Ethnopharmacological Knowledge to Machine Learning-Guided Lead Identifica
   > [no term] When it comes to antidiabetic agents, the core source is plants and the other natural products or their subsequent products in addition to their derived accounts for a sizable proportion
03486|Deep learning based detection of debris flow areas using Mask-RCNN and PCA: insights from the Uluborlu Basin, Türkiye
   > cause significant damage to infrastructure, agricultural areas, natural ecosystems, residential areas, and other regions due to environmental and topographic factors.These events are difficult to detect
03487|Comprehensive review and assessment of multi-species splicing variant prediction: task-specific deep learning models and genomic foundation models
   > achieved outstanding accuracy for predicting splicing variant effects in humans. However, their transferability to non-human species remains poorly understood, limiting applications in agricultural genomics, comparative … using our manually assembled benchmark datasets. Our benchmarking results revealed a substantial cross-species performance decrease (~21%–33% in the area under the receiver opera
03488|The final frontier: using carcasses for one health surveillance at the ecosystem interface
   > through direct consumption, environmental contamination, vector-mediated dispersal, and increased host aggregation, facilitating cross-species and trophic spillover events. Scavengers can amplify or mitigate microbe transmission: their
03489|Local similarity anomaly for general face forgery detection
   > security but also to the international political situation. Therefore，detection methods with good generalization ability need to be developed. In their early stages of development，forged faces … forgery techniques widely differ，the detection algorithms for different forgery techniques have limited generalization ability. Therefore，although the local traces caused by Step 3 above are universal，dire
03490|Genome-wide transcriptome profiling and development of age prediction models in the human brain
   > of significant transcriptome alterations during healthy aging in a study that compared different regions in the human brain. We harmonized neuropathologically normal PFC transcriptome datasets
03491|Characterizing Spatiotemporal Patterns of White Mold in Soybean across South Dakota Using Remote Sensing
   > 0.99 for NDVI+DOY models. A comparison of the NDVI temporal change between different sites showed that white mold temporal development was affected by the site
03492|Integration of UPLC-Q-TOF-MS/MS, chemometrics and network pharmacology to discovery potential quality markers in Sinomenii Caulis
   > sinoracutine, and magnoflorine are active ingredients with the ability to differentiate the different regions of SC samples. And thus should be prioritized when selecting quality
03493|Retrieval of Soybean SPAD at Different Vertical Canopy Scales Based on Fractional-Order Derivatives and Spectral Indices
   > mean-SPAD models maintained relatively favorable performance under repeated grouped validation and bidirectional cross-year testing. The SAVI-RF model achieved a repeated-validation R2 of 0.597 ± 0.064 and cross-year R2 values of 0.655 and 0.611 in the two directions. These findings
03494|TandemNet: A Multi-Scale Multiple-Instance Learning Framework for Early-Season Rice Yield Prediction
   > growing-season windows. Using Sentinel-1, Sentinel-2, and MODIS data from 2018 to 2023, leave-one-year-out validation shows that TandemNet outperforms Random Forest, XGBoost, LSTM, and Transformer baselines
03495|Implementation and Comparative Analysis of CNN and Transfer Learning Models (EfficientNetB0, MobileNetV2, and ResNet50) for Rice Leaf Disease Detectio
   > respectively. MobileNetV2 exhibited the most balanced performance across all classes, showing superior generalization capability and computational efficiency. The best-performing model was integrated into a Streamlit-based … systems and provides a reliable solution for automated rice disease detection in real-world conditions.
03496|Deployment-oriented evaluation of stage-specific information for rice yield prediction across years, sites and site-year environments in southern Chin
   > in crop-yield machine learning, but it can overestimate performance when models are transferred to future seasons, new sites or new site-year environments. Methods We developed … southern China. Five modeling feature sets were compared across random five-fold cross-validation, leave-one-year-out validation, forward-year prediction, leave-one-site-out validation and leave-one-site-year-out validati
03497|The Phenology of Coffea arabica var. Esperanza L4A5 Under Different Agroforestry Associations and Fertilization Conditions in the Caribbean Region of 
   > [no term] This study focused on the phenology of Coffea arabica var. Esperanza L4A5, an F1 interspecific hybrid obtained by crossing commercial varieties with wild genotypes from Ethiopia and Sudan. Most phenological
03498|Text-guided multi-modal learning for wheat fusarium head blight detection using UAV
   > [no abstract]
03499|A multi-scale small object detection framework for tomato leaf pest and disease detection in complex natural environments
   > object detection methods, YOLO series models, and transformer-based detection models. Ablation studies, cross-dataset validation, and robustness evaluations under different field conditions further demonstrate the effectiveness
03500|Robotics Meets AI and Vision in South America (Topical Collection)
   > including altitude control for hybrid aerial-underwater vehicles, robust localization in challenging environments, cross-domain localization for underwater robots, image-based navigation for agricultural rovers, continuous training of
03501|A hybrid PROSAIL inversion framework for winter wheat LCC using hyperspectral data and transfer learning
   > LCC estimation methods, empirical models lack a physical basis and have poor generalisability, while physical models are widely applicable but suffer from ill-posed inversion problems. … the efficiency of machine learning; however, they are still affected by the domain shift between simulated and measured data, which limits their generalisation performance. Transfer Component Analysis (TCA), a dom
03502|Enhanced convolutional block attention module with Learnable Gated Fusion (LGF-CBAM) for cocoa pod disease identification
   > performance often varies between datasets due to limitations in feature extraction and generalisation. This study introduces a Learnable Gated Fusion Convolutional Block Attention Module (LGF-CBAM) … achieving 98.95% accuracy along with F1 and PPV scores of 99.11%. The cross-dataset evaluation confirmed robustness, with accuracies of 98.53% on Cocoa Diseases (YOLOv4), 97.96%
03503|A National High-Resolution Digital Soil Information System for Spain Based on More Than 50,000 Harmonized Soil Observations and Machine Learning
   > practices. The resulting maps were generated at 20 m spatial resolution and generalized to 200 m for dissemination, providing a harmonized national soil property dataset … agricultural and environmental decision-making and can be adapted for soil mapping in other regions using open-access data and open-source tools.
03504|Hybrid approach for comprehensive recognition of line objects contained in high-density piping and instrumentation diagrams using deep learning and ru
   > [no abstract]
03505|Machine Learning Inference Limits of Routine Cement Characterization for CEM I Performance: Evidence From a Multi-Producer Dataset
   > continuous quality control data, but its information content for performance inference and transferability across independent producers remains uncertain. This study analyzes 476 cement records from 23 European
03506|Attention-Enhanced Lightweight Object Detection for Rice Pest Identification Using YOLOv8n with CBAM and BiFPN
   > baseline, and zero-shot inference on Florence-2 does not work at all without domain adaptation.
03507|PlantCLEF 2025: Advancing AI-based Multi-Species Plant Identification in Vegetation Quadrats for Supporting Environmental Law and Biodiversity Monitor
   > challenges simultaneously. The limited availability of labeled quadrat images to ensure model generalization across ecosystems further imposes training the model on citizen-science images, which are typically close-up and organ-centered on single plants, thereby introducing a strong domain shift. The task is further compounded by the presence of numerous, overlapping … non-plant regions; while eff
03508|Genetic Dissection of Image-Derived Pod-Related Traits in an Interspecific Soybean RIL Population
   > deep learning-based image phenotyping framework. These traits exhibited substantial phenotypic variation, with across-year entry-mean broad-sense heritability (H2) estimates ranging from 0.30 to 0.80. Composite interval … trait loci (QTLs), which were integrated into 39 non-redundant loci, including six cross-year stable QTLs and three QTLs supported by best linear unbiased prediction (BLUP)
03509|UHPLC‐Q‐TOF‐MS Phytochemical Characterization and ATR-FTIR analysis Combined with Machine Learning for Asparagus racemosus Leaves
   > [no term] The medicinal plant Asparagus racemosus Wild., has been widely used in traditional medicine to cure various diseases such as cough, diabetes, gastric issues, diarrhoea, headaches, and rheumatism. This paper studies
03510|SentinelEye: ML-Based Wild Animal Intrusion Detection System Using Raspberry Pi – A Review
   > [no term] The frequent intrusion of wild animals into farms, city outskirts, and public spaces often leads to crop destruction, property loss, and potential threats to human safety. Traditional preventive methods such
03511|MS-TFNet: a multi-scale temporal feature fusion network for maize growth stage recognition
   > to subtle morphological differences between adjacent stages, small seedling targets, and substantial cross-year environmental variability. To address these challenges, this study proposes a Multi-Scale Temporal
03512|Management implications of habitat selection by whooping cranes (Grus americana) on the Texas coast
   > [no term] Abstract Effective habitat management for rare and endangered species requires a thorough understanding of their specific habitat requirements. Although machine learning models have been increasingly used in the analyses of
03513|The Davis Duality of Approximation and Obstruction: Why Machine Learning Works, Why the Vacuum Has Mass, and the Universal Law of Flat Failure
   > GD deviates from Riemannian steepest descent by ‖F⁻¹ − I‖ Flat minima generalize (Vardi 2023) "Implicit regularization" GD unstable at minima with λ_max > 2/η … is ∫‖Hess_g f‖² dμ Adversarial examples (Khoury 2019) "High codimension" Decision boundaries degrade where ‖Hess_g f‖ is large Hessian spectrum (Ghorbani 2019) "Empirical observation" Gradient
03514|Automated module for the separation of potato tubers from soil impurities: designing and testing
   > [no term] Harvest quality is primarily determined by the ability to preserve marketable produce while minimizing soil and plant impurities. To address this challenge, the authors have designed and manufactured an automated
03515|Climatic and Biotic Associations with Source–Sink Efficiency in Philippine Banana (Musa spp.) Production: A National-Scale Synthesis Using Mixed-Effec
   > hypothesized statistical mediation structures through phenology and canopy proxies, and XGBoost with leave-one-province-out spatial cross-validation and SHAP-based interpretability to identify nonlinear empirical inflection points. Temperature seasonality … SSE in the Philippines, with disease pressure correlating with compounded rather than independent yield limitations. Interpretable machine lea
03516|CSAG-DETR: a lightweight detector for accurate weed detection in sugar beet fields under complex field conditions
   > in sugar beet cultivation. However, existing deep learning-based detectors often experience performance degradation in complex field environments characterized by variable illumination, severe occlusion, dense vegetation, … object detection models in terms of overall detection performance and computational efficiency. Generalization experiments conducted on the public CottonWeedDet12 dataset furth
03517|Chlamy_ChloroPred: a deep learning-based, highly accurate binary classifier for chloroplast protein prediction in the model microalga, Chlamydomonas r
   > Notably, despite being trained solely on the algal proteome, Chlamy_ChloroPred showed substantial cross-species versatility when applied to the proteome of the terrestrial plant, Arabidopsis thaliana
03518|Wheat Stripe Rust Regional Monitoring With Dynamic Multi-Indicator Weight Updating Method
   > weight update mechanism enhances its ability to adapt to spatial heterogeneity across different regions. Despite a decline in the monitoring accuracy of all three models
03519|Wild Animal Detection and Tracking Drone System Using Centerline Extraction
   > [no term] In recent years, damage by wild animals has become a serious problem, primarily in rural areas in Japan. In 2018, the amount of crop damage was estimated at approximately 15.7
03520|Dynamically Assembling Biological Intelligence to Predict Novel Cellular Phenotypes
   > Bio-AMLM (Biological Adaptive Modular Learning Model), a new framework designed to address out-of-distribution (OOD) generalization challenges in predicting cellular responses. Unlike monolithic deep learning models or simple
03521|Winter Wheat-Yield Estimation in the Huang-Huai-Hai Region Based on KNN-Ward Phenological Zoning and Multi-Source Data
   > 0.46, RRMSE = 13.02%), the phenological zone model shows strong performance under leave-one-year-out cross-validation, with R2 ranging from 0.54 to 0.68 and RRMSE below 12.50%.
03522|Quality assessment and prediction of Lycium ruthenicum Murr. from different geographical regions based on chroma–component–antioxidant analysis and FT
   > [no abstract]
03523|Convolution-smoothing based locally sparse estimation for functional quantile regression
   > [no term] Motivated by an application to study the impact of temperature, precipitation and irrigation on soybean yield, this article proposes a sparse semi-parametric functional quantile model. The model is called ``sparse''
03524|Hyperspectral Nondestructive Detection of Soluble Solids Content in Raisins During Drying Using a Conditional Convolutional Residual Network
   > [no abstract]
03525|Remote sensing-driven soil fertility modelling and summer rice suitability mapping in a floodplain agroecosystem of Assam
   > [no abstract]
03526|Distant provenance of archaeological dogs in Chiapas confirms complex trade networks within Mayan societies
   > [no term] This study investigates the origin, exchange and diet of archaeological dog specimens of highland Chiapas, located on the western Maya frontier, historically well-known for its overland trade routes and merchant
03527|ThyroidEffi 1.0: a cost-effective system for high-performance multi-class thyroid carcinoma classification
   > cost. Efficient, interpretable models are crucial for clinical support. We developed and externally validated a deep learning system for clinically-oriented tri-class classification of thyroid FNAB … and efficiency; and (4) a Transformer-inspired module for multi-scale, multi-view feature integration. External validation used 1,015 independent FNAB images. ThyroidEffi Basic achieved a macro F1 of 
03528|Drivers and Implications of land use land cover change for Wufe- Washa Forest and neighboring areas, Amhara Region, Ethiopia
   > field, Google Earth map, and Landsat images, with sample sizes corresponding to different years. Stratified random sampling generated a total of 320, 370, 460, and … during 1985–2000. However, in the third comparison period (2000–2022) the forest cover decreased by 4.58%. Socioeconomic and political factors such as agricultural expansion activities, population
03529|Atrial fibrillation and stroke: are we looking in the right direction?
   > inflammation, together with abnormal electrical and contractile properties of the atria, which, independently of AF episodes, also favour thromboembolism.5 Multiple cross talks between the atrial … of the atria, using feature-tracking cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging and speckle-tracking echocardiography.9 Another challenge is integration of the myriad of data that influence the risk
03530|Cross-scale mapping of canopy cover abundance and width in large-scale jujube orchards by integrating UAV and satellite data
   > [no abstract]
03531|Loss of Relict Oak Forests along Coastal Louisiana: A Multiyear Analysis Using Google Earth Engine
   > the Louisiana Chenier Plains in Cameron and Vermilion Parishes. Data from three different years (2003, 2007, and 2019) were used to map 2302 km2 along
03532|Noninvasive Interstitial Glucose Estimation Using Wearables and Machine Learning in Healthy Individuals and Individuals With Obesity: Observational Co
   > from multimodal, noninvasive wearable sensor data using a machine learning approach under real-world conditions. While further validation in larger and more diverse cohorts is warranted,
03533|Caffeine Mitigates the Locomotor Hyperactivity in Middle‐aged Low‐density Lipoprotein Receptor ( LDL r)‐Knockout Mice
   > cholesterol levels in the blood by mediating the vascular uptake and intracellular degradation of low-density lipoprotein (LDL). Accordingly, the decrease in the activity of LDLr caused by genetic polymorphisms has been associated … the role these mechanisms in age-dependent caffeine effects represents a very exciting new field of research. The authors are thankful to Dr. Rodrigo Medeiros for
03534|Comparative Evaluation of UAV Multispectral and Measured Biophysical Feature Combinations for Winter Wheat Canopy Nitrogen Estimation
   > incremental contribution for vegetation cover and limited additional value from LAI. Bidirectional cross-season validation remained direction- and model-dependent. Overall, controlled low-redundancy feature fusion was more beneficial than increased model complexity, while field-level and cross-season tests indicated that the strong within-dataset results should not be interpreted as broad generali
03535|DFA-YOLO: an enhanced YOLOv11-OBB and knowledge distillation-based maize stomata detection system
   > 1,053 to 3,597 microscopic images, DFA-YOLO integrates three task-specific components: (1) a cross-dataset MGD distillation strategy that transfers structural priors from single-stomata images to dense
03536|Animal Models of Hallucinations Observed Through the Modern Lens
   > Most definitions of hallucinations generally stress the uncoupling of subjective responses to external input. Such dissociations, which imply a loss of stimulus control or attention … species (and magnetoencephalography in humans), combined with magnetic resonance spectroscopy to measure cross-species, eg, GABA/glutamate ratios. Some of the most powerful evidence in humans has
03537|County-Level Winter Wheat Yield Prediction Based on Phenological-Stage Progressive Multi-Source Data Fusion
   > forest (RF), Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost), and CNN-LSTM models. In addition, a leave-one-year-out validation strategy was used to analyze the interannual generalization ability of the CNN-LSTM-Transformer model under different year conditions.[Results and Discussions]In the test set based on county-level sample partitioning, … R2 of the CNN-LSTM-Transformer model increased by 0.054, while R
03538|Fruiting under pressure—the 33rd meeting of the Fungal Genetics Conference
   > had already been part of my scientific life in one way or another.” Of the 22 GSA poster winners, 13 were first-time attendees. This includes … multiple sessions reporting Starship discoveries spanning from epigenetic regulation to host specialization. Another intriguing topic was the work on “fire-loving” or pyrophilous fungi. Dr. Monika
03539|Functional and morphological characterization of ocular phenotype in C3H / HeOuJ (Pde6b‐rd1) mice
   > female mice compared to age‐matched WT. fERG a and b‐wave amplitudes were decreased by 90% in both sexes (p < 0.001). The rd1 mice had … and structural changes at 3 months of age. The mice presented significantly decreased but detectable fERG amplitudes, however, they had no functional vision as assessed
03540|Exploring the green development path in western China from the perspective of spatial functional heterogeneity: An integrated application of fsQCA and
   > [no abstract]
03541|Knowledge-Based Feature Selection Substantially Enhances Data-Driven Wastewater Treatment Modeling
   > the best-performing attention-based architecture. More importantly, the proposed framework markedly improves model generalizability: under out-of-distribution high-flow conditions where the attention-based model fails to capture N 2 O … accuracy (mean R 2 = 0.596, MAE = 0.041) and similarly preserves generalizability under an input distributional shift. By introducing mechanistic understanding int
03542|Spatio-temporal dynamics of L-band zeroth-order vegetation scattering albedo from SMAP observations in tropical forests
   > [no abstract]
03543|LATTE: Label-efficient Incident Phenotyping from Longitudinal Electronic Health Records
   > patients to perform unsupervised pre-training and semi-supervised joint training. Finally, LATTE enhances cross-site portability via contrastive representation learning. LATTE is evaluated on three analyses: the
03544|Spatiotemporal Analysis of Phragmites australis in the Mississippi River Delta Through Deep Learning Techniques and Empirical Orthogonal Function Base
   > imagery and concurrent ground samples are costly, time-consuming, and often do not generalize across different years. This research addressed the challenge of robust mapping and understanding Phragmites … an integrated approach across two objectives: firstly, assessing the robustness and temporal generalization of deep learning models for Phragmites classification when trained using multi-year pas
03545|Engineering a novel bifunctional nanoplatform integrating metabolic profiles and tissue imaging for fingerprints characterization of Polygonatum cyrto
   > [no abstract]
03546|Self-Supervised Multimodal Learning for Preharvest and Postharvest Fruit Quality Assessment Using Images and Environmental Sensors
   > limited prediction accuracy under few-label conditions, insufficient multimodal fusion, and weak cross-orchard generalization, this study proposes FruitSSL-QNet, a self-supervised multimodal learning framework for jointly modeling … 21.1%, 22.2%, and 22.5%, respectively. The decay-risk AUC reaches 0.921, and the cross-site F1-score reaches 0.867, indicating strong risk discrimination and stable ge
03547|Artificial Intelligence-Enabled Comprehensive Electronic Health Record Phenotyping at a Large Scale
   > has a roughly balanced positive/negative ratio to ease training. We then did leave-one-site-out cross-validation. The areas under the receiver operator curve are higher than 0.95
03548|Scintillators in the wild: the present and future of gamma-ray sensing in geophysical applications
   > [no abstract]
03549|Changes in the functional traits of Thymus mongolicus along environmental gradients and factors influencing the traits of Northern China
   > [no term] Thymus mongolicus is a common medicinal and edible plant in grasslands of northern China. However, previous studies were limited to the production and utilization value of T. mongolicus, and only
03550|Combination of machine learning and AI-based metaheuristic algorithms for process design to enhance biogas and methane yields from lignocellulosic res
   > [no abstract]
03551|Analysis of the spatiotemporal evolution and determinants of cultivated land quality under a hybrid-driven framework integrating multiple machine lear
   > [no abstract]
03552|Advanced data analytics for on-farm experimentation: methods, challenges, and opportunities for modern agronomic decision making
   > of site-specific yield drivers. Despite these advances, challenges remain related to model generalization, endogeneity in pooled datasets, and representation of temporal variability. Cross-site synthesis, including meta-analysis and Bayesian hierarchical modeling, has emerged as a key … 'Decision Support & Learning' involves site-specific input rates, risk and uncertainty-aware decisions, cross-si
03553|Whole-brain three-dimensional imaging for quantification of drug targets and treatment effects in mouse models of neurodegenerative diseases
   > in drug therapeutic effects. The potential of LSFM-based 3D quantitative TH analysis generalizes to histological studies in preclinical models of diseases characterized by deficient catecholaminergic … inform about the regulation of disease-relevant targets in mouse models of AD. Another important aspect of LSFM is the ability to directly image and quantify
03554|Explainable machine learning identifies small high-performance gene signatures from full transcriptomes in human liver preservation cohorts
   > signal in either label orientation and is reported as a negative result. Cross-dataset transferability assessed by Leave-One-Dataset-Out validation was consistently poor, with balanced accuracy of 0.500 and macro F1 … in five of seven test sets, indicating majority-class collapse rather than genuine cross-dataset signal, suggesting that panels are largely context-specific. An exception was observe
03555|Rapid and Accurate Classification of Rice Kernels Grown in Different Geographic Environments: A Method Based on Efficient Network
   > [no abstract]
03556|The Chief Goliath and the future of African ecology
   > beetles has published that the Chief Goliath may now even be extinct in the wild, thus creating an obvious exponential increase in price of specimens … declining while completely ignored by science but noticed by beetle collectors – another classic case of "Rome burning" while we like Nero, fiddled. Recent face-to-face
03557|Rho GTPase overexpression impacts leaf internal architecture and mesophyll conductance in Arabidopsis
   > [no term] Summary Leaves are built from multiple cell types and are structured to enable the conversion of carbon dioxide and water into sugars in the process of photosynthesis. Understanding how cell
03558|Development of genomic markers associated to growth-related traits and sex determination in lumpfish (Cyclopterus lumpus)
   > [no term] Cleaner fish species have gained great importance in the control of sea lice, among them, lumpfish (Cyclopterus lumpus) has become one of the most popular. Lumpfish life cycle has been
03559|Physics-guided transfer from laboratory spectra to satellite observations reveals coupled salinity–texture–fertility variability in arid irrigated cro
   > [no term] Satellite prediction of multiple soil attributes in arid irrigated croplands is limited by the spectral-domain gap between proximal spectra and satellite observations. Here, we developed a hierarchical, physics-guided, multimodal, multitask
03560|DFSNet-VLM: A Hybrid Frequency-Aware and Vision-Language Framework for Remote Sensing Scene Classification and Semantic Image Explanation
   > complement one type of features with respect to the other by integrating cross-domain fusion blocks at multiple stages. Additionally, a pretrained VLM model, “Bootstrapped Language … comparative analysis, and Grad-CAM++-based model explainability demonstrate that the proposed model is generalizable and scalable, and that it achieves improved accuracy. In addition, the proposed
03561|Research on Real-time Detection Method of Rice Diseases and Pests Based on Improved YOLOv10s Model
   > scenarios. A stratified sampling combined with five-fold cross-validation strategy was used for data partitioning to enhance the model's generalization ability. Secondly, to address the limitations of the receptive field and feature
03562|Gaps in CITES policy undermine conservation of threatened species by providing loopholes for illegal trade
   > in illegal trafficking from the stockpiles (Waeber et al. 2019). 2023 is another presidential election year, and the pressure to renew trafficking will increase. Although … origin are verified. When needed, the seizing party must collect samples for independent identification, although time-consuming, robust, well-informed NDFs are currently the only tool available
03563|Generalisable functional imaging classifiers of schizophrenia have multifunctionality as trait, state, and staging biomarkers
   > this new biomarker demonstrated a notable accuracy rate of 77.3% in an independent validation cohort, including 404 healthy controls and 198 patients with SSD from seven different sites, effectively mitigating across-scan variability. Importantly, our biomarker specifically identified SSD, differentiating
03564|Background Sensitivity in Unsupervised Anomaly Detection: A Controlled Cross-Architecture Study on Maize Disease
   > lab to field for unsupervised maize disease detection. A convolutional autoencoder (CAE) trained on healthy PlantVillage maize reaches 0.9942 test AUROC. Three pretrained-feature methods reach … at 0.9991. All four methods saturate the in-domain benchmark. We then evaluate cross-domain behavior on PlantDoc (378 maize disease images, no healthy class) and a
03565|Hybrid Modeling Method for Rice Structural Parameters Based on 3D Radiative Transfer Model and Multi-Modal Remote Sensing Data
   > [no abstract]
03566|Keep Sugar Away to Stay Active: Glycosylation of Methyl Salicylate Shuts Down Systemic Signaling
   > [no term] Plant hormones are frequently modified by glycosylation, hydroxylation, methylation, and other conjugations, and these modifications can alter the hormone’s activity and stability (Wang et al., 2019). The phytohormone salicylic acid
03567|High-content screening (HCS) workflows for FAIR image data management with OMERO
   > WMS to HCS data management enables us to consistently transfer images across different locations in a structured and reproducible manner, reducing the risk of errors
03568|Geometric Data Augmentation with a Two-Stage Fine-Tuning Strategy for EfficientNetB3-Based Fruit Condition Classification
   > to health risks associated with chemical contaminants such as formalin. However, reliable generalization in automated inspection systems remains challenging because limited visual variation in image … and training stability. The proposed model achieved 99% test accuracy with consistent cross-dataset performance. The framework also demonstrated stable optimization behavior across training stages, i
03569|Beyond crown delineation: Assessing structural fidelity of UAV-derived D30 allometry across contrasting durian orchard sites
   > precision orchard management, yet unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV)–deep learning frameworks often evaluate cross-site performance only at crown mapping. This study introduces the Durian-specific Pipeline for … D30 is trunk diameter measured 30 cm above ground. D-PULSE also evaluates cross-site D2–D3 model divergence and height-error sensitivity. Testing across orchards in Melaka, Johor,
03570|The modified elevated gap interaction test: a novel paradigm to assess social preference
   > WBS) behavior. Wild-type animals show a clear preference for whisker interaction with another mouse rather than an inanimate object. This preference proved to be significantly
03571|Detection of Spotted-winged Drosophila (Diptera: Drosophilidae) Infestations in Blueberry Fruits1
   > second derivatives of absorbance in the 660- to 690-nm range increased, but decreased in the 692- to 715-nm range over time. None of the berries … this study to accurately predict positive infestations may be due to its decrease in signal-to noise ratio at about 980 nm. However, data obtained at
03572|Where could urban tree canopy expansion lower modeled summer cooling-energy demand? An equity-informed explainable machine-learning framework for Wash
   > [no term] Urban heat and rising summer cooling demand are increasingly important equity concerns in U.S. cities, yet fine-scale evidence on where urban greening may reduce summer cooling-energy demand remains limited. This
03573|Domain-Adaptive Transfer Learning Based on CNN-KAN for UAV Estimation of Upper Root-Zone Soil Moisture in Winter Wheat Fields
   > [no abstract]
03574|Grainalyze: A Hybrid Approach for Consumer Level Assessment of Rice Quality Based on Grain Morphology
   > quality significantly affects consumer preference, market value, and grain grading standards across different regions and local agricultural markets today. However, conventional rice quality assessment commonly
03575|Suitable areas for the conservation of six wild felids in Mexico and their overlap with protected areas
   > [no abstract]
03576|Combined effects of climate and land use change on wild bee nesting groups across Europe
   > [no abstract]
03577|An Integrative Framework for Sex-Specific Microglial Morphometry and Phenotyping in Alzheimer’s Disease
   > [no abstract]
03578|Spatiotemporal evaluation and impact of superficial factors on surface water quality for drinking using innovative techniques in Mahanadi River Basin,
   > a monitoring period. In this investigation, water samples were collected from 16 different locations along the stretch and 21 parameters were analyzed for a period
03579|Tool wear monitoring using an online, automatic and low cost system based on local texture
   > proposed method is based on (1) dividing the cutting edge image in different regions, called Wear Patches (WP), (2) characterising each one as worn or
03580|Tomato Leaf Disease Classification Using EfficientNet Enhanced with RefConv Structural Reparameterization, Efficient Channel Attention, and Lion Optim
   > leaf diseases faces challenges due to high inter-class similarity and insufficient model generalization ability. To address these issues, this paper proposes an improved EfficientNet architecture … recalibration. Meanwhile, the Lion optimizer is adopted to accelerate convergence and improve generalization performance on complex agricultural images. Experimental results show that the proposed metho
03581|Pollen specialist bee species are accurately predicted from visitation, occurrence and phylogenetic data
   > [no abstract]
03582|Decoding Kounis syndrome with artificial intelligence: from diagnosis to precision medicine
   > risk stratification, treatment selection, and monitoring). We also address implementation barriers, including dataset shift, bias, transparency, and governance. Kounis syndrome is a prime candidate for
03583|Species subdivision of ramie (Boehmeria nivea; Urticaceae), a species with wild, domesticated and feral forms, based on integrative taxonomy
   > [no term] Feralization, the re-establishment of wild populations from domesticated ancestors, can involve multiple parallel character reversions, and potentially also rampant gene flow with cultivated and/or naturally wild material. It hence poses
03584|Smart Nutrition Monitoring: IoT-Based Rice Soil Health Classification Using Naive Bayes and Fuzzy Expert System
   > This synthetic data was generated using a Multimodal Gaussian distribution to represent real-world conditions in the field (TDS, pH, humidity, and temperature). The evaluation results
03585|Dried biofluid droplet morphologies for automated and scalable disease classification
   > the absence of an accessible, end‐to‐end analytical pipeline. This study presents a generalizable, high‐throughput pipeline that, for the first time, seamlessly integrates image acquisition in
03586|Determination of the Geographical Origins of Olive Mill Wastewater: FTMIR Spectroscopy and Chemometric Algorithms for Accurate Classification
   > oil industry. Further research can explore the extension of this methodology to other regions and agricultural by-products, incorporating advanced machine learning algorithms for enhanced classification
03587|Physics-Informed Transfer Learning Reduces Simulation to Reality Gaps for Winter Wheat Traits Retrieval from Hyperspectral Observations
   > sensing data remains challenging due to limited field observations and poor cross-platform generalization of data-driven models. This study develops a physics-informed transfer learning framework to … (CNN, CNN–SE, CNN–Transformer, and CNN–SE–Transformer) integrating spectral bands and vegetation indices were pretrained on simulated datasets and transferred to real observations using progressive f
03588|Analysis of Volatile Compounds by GCMS reveals the Geographical Origin of Cultivated Rice
   > of nine varieties from Wuchang were compared to 11 rice varieties from other regions. Multivariate analysis and unsupervised clustering showed an unambiguous distinction between Wuchang
03589|Skeleton-Based and Sensor-Based Gait Analysis for Frailty Prediction in Older Adults: A Systematic Review of Computer Vision and Machine Learning Appr
   > publication of two enabling technologies (ST-GCN and YOLOv3, both 2018). Two reviewers independently screened records against predefined PICOS criteria. Risk of bias and applicability concerns … Reported overall classification accuracy ranged from 79% (in a study with dual-dataset external validation) to approximately 97.5% (in a study that excluded the frail class
03590|A novel sample selection strategy for instance-based transfer learning in local soil organic carbon estimation
   > [no abstract]
03591|MDANet: Apple leaf disease detection network based on multi-scale dynamic adaptation and feature enhancement
   > [no abstract]
03592|Enhanced Classification of Rice Varieties using Cross Modality Dynamic Bidirectional Knowledge Transfer Model
   > because of their similar characteristics. To overcome this limitation, Centered Kernel Alignment-based Cross-Domain Knowledge Transfer (CKA-CDKT) is proposed to accurately identify and classify various types
03593|Host genetics maps to behaviour and brain structure in mice
   > [no term] Abstract Gene-environment interactions in the postnatal period have a long-term impact on neurodevelopment. To effectively model neurodevelopment in the mouse, we incorporated several validated behavioural tests to develop a behavioural
03594|Deep neurobehavioral phenotyping uncovers neural fingerprints of locomotor deficits in Parkinson’s disease
   > model, our approach revealed that gait, akinesia, and stationary movements occupy prominently different regions in the low-dimensional embedding space. Among the predominant features separating the … in rodents. The presented neurobehavioral phenotyping approach is translational and can easily generalize to the analysis of other complex movement disorders. Together, our results highlight
03595|IoT-RiceMobileNet: An improved lightweight MobileNetV2 Model for real-time multi-class rice disease detection using IoT
   > Furthermore, many existing studies rely on limited datasets, which can restrict model generalizability under diverse real-world conditions. Although transfer learning can improve classification performance, developing lightweight models suitable
03596|Profiling Genetic Diversity Reveals the Molecular Basis for Balancing Function with Misfolding in Alpha-1 Antitrypsin
   > v ariance (SCV) relationships that quantitate the functional value of every residue in the wild-type (WT) AAT sequence with defined uncertainty in the context of
03597|Detection and classification of invasive Callery pear from multisource satellite imageries in Google Earth Engine
   > [no term] Assessing the spatial distribution of invasive species is a critical component for establishing baselines to examine the rate of spread, documenting key areas where negative impacts on ecosystems can be
03598|County-Level Rice Yield Estimation in Guangdong Province, China, Using a Prior-Guided Environmental Fusion Network
   > production monitoring, yet dense field-level observations are often unavailable and prediction across unseen years remains challenging. This study involved the development of a prior-guided environmental … attention and integrates environmental and general feature representations through gated fusion. Under leave-one-year-out (LOYO) validation of 447 county–year observations from 2020 to 2024, PGE
03599|Soybean leaf physicochemical parameter inversion based on radiative transfer model screening constraints and measured-noise enhancement
   > [no abstract]
03600|Morphogenetic Neural Architectures: A Universal Genotype–Phenotype Framework for Indefinite Architectural Evolution
   > through recursive development, while modular architectural organization improves evolvability and supports systematic generalization to novel combinations of learned subfunctions. The manuscript further formalizes mutation, crossover, … argues that such systems may better support compositional reasoning, continual learning, and cross-domain transfer, and it evaluates the approach through benchmark
03601|Wild Boar Collision Data and Satellite Computer Vision Refine Habitat Suitability Mapping across France
   > [no abstract]
03602|Accelerating Computer-Based Recognition of Fynbos Leaves Using a Graphics Processing Unit
   > [no term] The Cape Floristic Kingdom (CFK) is the most diverse floristic kingdom in the world and has been declared an international heritage site. However, it is under threat from wild fires
03603|A Knowledge-Guided Multi-Task Framework for Robust and Interpretable Rice Disease Diagnosis in Open-Field Scenarios
   > [no abstract]
03604|Characterizing distributions and drivers of emergent aquatic vegetation in Minnesota
   > the more widely accepted notion that wild rice lakes are self-contained or independent populations.
03605|Disentangling gene expression burden identifies generalizable phenotypes induced by synthetic gene networks
   > genes have on their host. We use the model to hypothesize a generalizable, synthetic cell state phenotype and validate the phenotype through antibiotic challenge experiments.
03606|Partitioning of eddy covariance footprint evapotranspiration using field data, UAS observations and GeoAI in the U.S. Chihuahuan desert
   > [no abstract]
03607|How much do model organism phenotypes contribute to the computational identification of human disease genes?
   > genome coverage. Work over the past decade has demonstrated the power of cross-species phenotype comparisons, and several cross-species phenotype ontologies have been developed for this purpose. The relative contribution of
03608|FUS is lost from nuclei and gained in neurites of motor neurons in a human stem cell model of VCP-related ALS
   > of VCP-mutant motor neurons (Fig. 1C and D). Additionally, we detect a decrease in nuclear FUS (Fig. 1E). FUS is mislocalized in hiPSC-derived VCP-mutant motor … the nucleus and the cytoplasm reveal that VCP-mutant motor neurons exhibit a decrease in FUS nuclear-to-cytoplasmic ratio. (C) Quantification of FUS in the nucleus and neurites reveal that VCP-mutant motor neurons exhibit a decrease in nu
03609|Oryza YOLOCNN-X: Real-time Rice Disease Detection and Classification on Raspberry Pi
   > on self-captured images from the rice field captured in Palghar, thus demonstrating cross-region validation. The experimental results demonstrate that model training, validation and testing gave
03610|Gamified Digital Phenotyping for Micro-Kinematic Cognitive Profiling: Bridging the Explainability and Synthetic Data Gaps
   > (e.g., High Cognitive Load, Psychomotor Fatigue) while calculating Feature Importance via Mean Decrease in Impurity (MDI). This native Explainable AI (XAI) mechanism isolates the specific … providing transparent insights into user wellness while establishing an empirical roadmap for domain adaptation to overcome the newly identified "Synthetic Data Gap."
03611|Rosewoods at crossroads: A modern paradigm to secure the survival of the world's most trafficked wild species
   > [no abstract]
03612|X-band Dual Polarization Phased-Array Radar for Meteorological Applications
   > (2050) climate change throughout Bwindi using different tools. Methods: I used seven independent environmental variables that are thought to affect gorilla distribution in Bwindi. I … that the abundance and/or range extent within Bwindi assessment area will change (increase/decrease) substantially by year 2050. But the actual boundaries may change. This would
03613|Synergistic intragenic epigenetic deregulation by IDH2 and SRSF2 mutations causes mis-splicing of key transcriptional regulators
   > [no term] Genes affecting DNA methylation (DNAme) are frequently comutated with splicing factors in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and associate with more aggressive phenotypes. To elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms, we deeply
03614|Integrating natural language processing and genome analysis enables accurate bacterial phenotype prediction
   > work. This study demonstrates the potential of machine learning methods to uncover cross-species patterns in microbial gene-phenotype correlations. As the number of sequenced strains and
03615|Development and Validation of a Real-Time YOLOv4-Based Multi-Fruit Detection Model for Autonomous Robotic Harvesting
   > comparable accuracy. Environmental tests confirmed robust performance in normal lighting with modest degradation under high occlusion and low light. Recommendations: The future steps will include efforts at domain adaptation techniques to bridge the training-deployment gap, utilize model optimization for edge
03616|Benchmarking hybrid CNN and transformer backbones with graph convolution networks (GCN) for flower growth-stage classification
   > graphs, while moderate GCN depth (3–5 layers) offers the best balance accuracy. Cross-dataset evaluation on the Oxford 102 Flower dataset further demonstrates the generalization capability of the proposed approach. These findings highlight the effectiveness of hybrid
03617|Transcriptomic and Physiological Profiling of Enhanced Drought Tolerance in a Gamma-Ray-Induced Colored Wheat Mutant
   > [no term] Drought stress poses a major threat to global wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) productivity by impairing physiological processes and inducing oxidative damage. Mutation breeding provides a valuable approach to generate novel
03618|Quantitative Geometric Modeling of Blood Cells from X-ray Histotomograms of Whole Zebrafish Larvae
   > a random forest classifier for blood cells, enabling the use of a generalized cellular segmentation algorithm for the accurate segmentation of blood cells. These models
03619|Unravelling mutation patterns in Extended-Spectrum β-Lactamases for precision drug design against AMR in Enterobacteriaceae
   > [no abstract]
03620|Geometry-Guided Semi-Supervised Multimodal Segmentation for UAV-Based Rice-Lodging Mapping
   > 20%, and 40%, and evaluates them on the held-out HA-P1 parcel. The external Wuxi parcel WX-P3 is reserved solely for direct cross-region testing. With an RN-101 backbone, GUMatch achieves 80.12%, 82.98%, and 85.06% mIoU … and 86.72% mIoU. On WX-P3 under the 40% labeled setting with models trained on HA-P2, GUMatch with DINOv2-B achieves 68.34% mIoU, improving over UniMatch V2
03621|Symbolic regression for data-efficient cooling load forecasting in real-world HVAC systems
   > real operational data from a hospital cooling plant in Vancouver, models were trained on window lengths ranging from 3 to 16 days and evaluated across five in- domain and out-of-distribution periods spanning summer and shoulder seasons. A reliability-driven selection strategy was introduced … of training data. The selected SR models achieved strong forecasting accuracy and generalization, outperfo
03622|Developing Low-Cost In-Situ Water Pollution Sensors
   > it. The need for researchers to investigate the detrimental effects of environmental degradation, particularly on water sources, which is increased by the expanding environmental degradation that has been caused in recent years by development, population growth, and … abovementioned water quality issues. Furthermore, several sensors were developed for deployment in different regions connected dire
03623|A best-match approach for gene set analyses in embedding spaces
   > [no term] Embedding methods have emerged as a valuable class of approaches for distilling essential information from complex high-dimensional data into more accessible lower-dimensional spaces. Applications of embedding methods to biological data
03624|Spatial Evolution Characteristics and Driving Factors of Compound Droughts in Karst Regions of Southwest China: A Copula-Based Study
   > moderate in Guangxi and the western Sichuan Plateau but more pronounced in other regions, with the maximum increase reaching 0.59. However, this upward trend is
03625|SOFT COMPUTING BASED IDENTIFICATION AND ASSESSMENT OF POTENTIAL DNA BARCODES OF SOLANACEOUS SPECIES USING cpDNA SEQUENCES
   > chloroplast genomes have been tested for their ability to identify species while other regions of genome are still left to be explored for their suitability
03626|IMPETUS: Integrated Mechanisms, Phenotypes, and Translational Underpinnings of Chronic Pain after Surgery v1
   > mechanisms that contribute to distinct CPSP phenotypes and explain inter-patient heterogeneity, with cross-species validation; 2) Characterize distinct phenotypic clusters within CPSP to inform personalized patient
03627|MASBN: a multi-attribute spatiotemporal braided network for fault detection and localization in thermal power units
   > [no abstract]
03628|Multi-objective Evaluation and Optimization of Stochastic Gradient Boosting Machines for Genomic Prediction and Selection in Wheat ( Triticum aestivum
   > (v) and boosting rounds (ntrees), impact stability and multi-objective predictive performance for cross-season prediction in a MAGIC wheat population. Using a grid search of 36 … > 0.98) and selection stability (Fleiss Kappa ≈ 0.90), while also improving generalizability. This combination improved predictive accuracy (r, R²) and ranking efficiency (NDCG) without
03629|Geothermal energy potentiality modeling using GIS-based machine learning algorithm concept in Southwestern Nigeria: insights from geophysical and remo
   > for accurate decision-making in geothermal resource exploitation in the investigated area and other regions with comparable geologic terrain.
03630|MARTr-KiwiNet: Accurate classification of kiwifruit sugar content integrating multi-scale attention residual convolution and transformer
   > was systematically evaluated through ablation experiments, single validation, five-fold cross-validation (5-CV), and independent test set validation. The results show that MARTr-KiwiNet achieved a single validation … the modeling set, with a 5-CV average accuracy of 97.01%. On an independent cross-year test set, the accuracy of a single test was 93.67%, and the average accuracy of 5-CV external va
03631|Automatic classification of constitutive and non-constitutive metabolites with gcProfileMakeR
   > was accompanied by appearance of aldehydes typical of green leaf volatile profiles. Decreased levels of AmLHY caused a major increase in volatile complexity, and activated
03632|Chlamydomonas Cellular Phenotypes Enable in vivo Validation of Computationally Designed Therapeutic ADA1 Variants
   > [no term] Poster presented at CellBio 2025 in Philadelphia, PA. December 2025Abstract:Adenosine deaminase (ADA) deficiency causes severe combined immunodeficiency, and current treatments include enzyme replacement therapy with immunogenic bovine proteins. To develop
03633|Integrating computer vision, process-based model and UAV data for rice yield mapping: A hybrid model-data fusion framework with a benchmark dataset
   > [no abstract]
03634|316 Awardee Talk: Development and Assessment of Predictive Models for Improved Swine Farming
   > validating a statistical model for the analysis of social interactions of pigs. Generalized linear mixed models were fitted, and a Bayesian framework was used for
03635|LiteFocus-Net: A Three-Point Lightweight Enhancement Framework for Small-Target Detection of Corn Leaf Diseases and Pests
   > 32.77%, giving an improvement of 4.7 percentage points, while the computational cost decreased by 15.9%. Ablation experiments confirmed the contribution of each component. AKL-Block reduced … relying on a larger model scale. Future work will focus on expanding cross-region, cross-variety, and cross-growth-stage samples, and on exploring region-level dynamic kernel selection, video-based
03636|Overexpression of RpKTI2 from Robinia pseudoacacia Affects the Photosynthetic Physiology and Endogenous Hormones of Tobacco
   > the maximum photochemical efficiency (Fv/Fm) increased significantly while intercellular CO2 concentration (Ci) decreased significantly. Stomatal size and hormone content (indole-3-acetic acid, zeatin riboside, gibberellin, and
03637|Screening native pepper, Tasmannia lanceolata (Poir.) A.C. Smith, for resistance against Phytophthora cinnamomi dieback
   > cinnamomi, from highly susceptible to highly resistant, in native pepper clones from different regions of Tasmania.
03638|ACNN-6mA: Prediction of N6-Methyladenine Loci in Multiple Species Based on Rice Dataset Pre-training Model
   > various indicators on the two rice datasets. Then we used the models trained on the rice dataset to fine-tune training in half of the other 11 datasets and predict the other half of the independent datasets. Then we used 11 trained models to test 11 species respectively. … was found that ACNN-6mA could obtain higher AUC, ACC and MCC whether cross-species prediction or independent verification set 
03639|Clinical application of facial aging clocks
   > relatively small sample size of omics-based aging clocks may affect the model generalization and limits the application of powerful deep learning methods. To tackle the … biological age and detect associated molecular patterns. In addition, facial aging clock trained on perceived age creatively avoids the dilemma of taking model error as
03640|Energy-efficient UAV path planning for maize disease monitoring via generative data augmentation and uncertainty-guided navigation
   > NLB lesions on real UAV imagery, significantly improving data diversity and reducing domain shift. Second, we enhance a YOLOv8-based detector with entropy-based uncertainty estimation via
03641|Expert knowledge-based weighted K-means clustering for polycystic ovary syndrome phenotype identification
   > the curve (AUC) = 0.4974 ± 0.0096] and demonstrated no phenotypic signal. Cross-dataset transfer decreased Cramér’s V from 0.497 to 0.006, which confirmed that EKWKM did not
03642|Dual-stream temporal-spatial forgery detection via phase-consistent edge features and 3D visual state-space modeling
   > [no abstract]
03643|A hybrid versatile method for state estimation and feature extraction from the trajectory of animal behavior
   > flies, rats, and bats in the laboratories, and penguins and flying seabirds in the wild, which were recorded with various methods and span a wide
03644|Using image classifiers to predict CMT2A disease-relevant mitochondrial motility phenotypes in iPSC motor neurons
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2A (CMT2A) is a genetic disease characterized by autosomal dominant MFN2 mutations and dysregulated mitochondrial trafficking. While there is currently no FDA-approved CMT2A therapy, the recent
03645|Multi-metric evaluation and parametric optimization of stochastic gradient boosting machines for genomic prediction and selection in wheat ( Triticum 
   > (v) and boosting rounds (ntrees), impact stability and multimetric predictive performance for cross-season, cross-environment prediction in a MAGIC wheat population. Using a grid search of … though optimal settings were trait-dependent. Despite moderate Pearson's r in this challenging cross-season, cross-environment prediction scenario, NDCG remained high (>0.85), indicating a strong ability to
03646|Convergent gut microbiome signatures of Autism Spectrum Disorder across independent pediatric cohort
   > analyzed two public pediatric cohorts (shotgun metagenomic and 16S rRNA) to assess cross-dataset separability of ASD versus neurotypical controls and to identify convergent microbial signals.
03647|Cross‐species protein interactome network‐based analysis of GWAS and human brain quantitative trait loci (x‐QTL) data identifies risk genes and drug t
   > lateral sclerosis (ALS) METHOD: In this study, we performed multi-modal analyses of cross-species protein interactome networks and human brain functional genomics data to identify risk … presented a multi-view topology-based deep learning framework to identify disease-associated genes for cross-species interactome (TAG-X). We re-constructed comprehensive protein-protein interactome networks for hu
03648|Temporal alignment of UAV hyperspectral and phenotype data via autoencoders for predicting nitrogen and nicotine content in cured tobacco leaves
   > a straightforward time-step removal (TSR) procedure, which discards non-overlapping observation dates among different years and thus serves as a baseline temporal-harmonization strategy. On the temporally … networks—were trained to establish predictive models for cNg and cNt. Overall, models trained on inputs aligned by the autoencoder-based schemes exhibited markedly higher predictive skill
03649|Growth curve parameters of AGB estimated from multi-source remote sensing data enhance wheat yield prediction accuracy
   > MAE=570.16 kg ha -1 ). The model further demonstrated stable performance across different regions and years ( R 2 =0.85, RMSE=784.52 kg ha -1 ,
03650|Predicting Persistent Pain After Surgery: Can Predicting the Weather Serve as an Example?
   > to predict acute moderate to severe postoperative pain using traditional statistical methods.6 Another example of machine learning in the context of pain prediction is the … food recommendations (such as chicken recommended for 1 person, but withheld from another) and demonstrated significantly lower postprandial glucose concentrations and concomitant changes in gut
03651|Scanning Brain Networks with Micro-CT
   > This process was repeated three times in total. The tissue was then transferred to 10 mL of n-buthyl glycigylether and left for several hours or … resin even after two cycles of resin soaking, an additional soaking using another resin aliquot was performed. Human brain tissues soaked in the resin were
03652|A106-24 High Content Analysis/Deep Cellular Phenotyping for Rapid Mechanistic Classification of Abca3 Variants
   > [no term] Abstract Background ATP-binding-cassette-transporter-A3 (ABCA3) transports phospholipids across the lysosomally-derived, lamellar body membranes in ATII cells to assemble surfactant. Biallelic pathogenic ABCA3 variants are the most common genetic cause of surfactant
03653|Koopman–PCE-based confidence-bounded fault diagnosis and recovery for hydrogen demand tracking in a membrane reactor
   > [no abstract]
03654|Toward smart health monitoring: multimodal sensing and intelligent disease diagnosis in poultry and livestock
   > modalities (Jin et al., 2025). Although LLMs exhibited broad coverage and strong cross-domain integration ability, their “black-box” nature limits interpretability and complicates the validation of … are threefold. First, redundancy increases resilience, allowing one modality to compensate when another is compromised. Second, complementarity allows each sensor to contribute unique insights to
03655|Analysis of Flash Drought in China using Artificial Intelligence models
   > flash droughts comparing to slowly-developing droughts, along with asymmetrical compound influences in different regions over China. For the Xinjiang region, P deficit played a dominant
03656|Prediction of Potential Habitat Distribution of Cibotium barometz (L.) J. Sm. Under Climate Change Based on a Multi-Model Ensemble Framework
   > we constructed a multi-model ensemble framework that integrated nine different algorithms, including Generalized Linear Models, various machine learning approaches, and a MaxEnt model optimized through
03657|A comparative perspective on epigenetics
   > mechanisms by dietary control and caloric restriction, and linking them to a decreased incidence of cancer and an extended lifespan’.Shifting focus from the impact of … some children will be resilient to the deleterious effects of early life adversity’.Another group of individuals that could provide remarkable insight into the epigenetic mechanisms
03658|Study on the extraction method of Glycyrrhiza uralensis Fisch. distribution area based on Gaofen-1 remote sensing imagery: a case study of Dengkou cou
   > accuracy of 97.32%. Spectral analysis revealed distinct differences with G. uralensis of different years and other feature types. From 2014 to 2022, the distribution of … performance compared to models using alternative feature sets or algorithms. However, the generalizability of the RF model based on the GUVI feature set may be
03659|Pot Experiments Overestimate Mercury Accumulation in Rice: Evidence from Multi-Year Field Validation
   > little or no correlation with field rankings, indicating that performance is not transferable across environments. Random forest analysis identified elevated soil temperature and reduced light
03660|Precision breeding in rice: Integrating CRISPR-Cas genome editing, pangenomics and artificial intelligence for climate-resilient cultivar development
   > now support genomic prediction, image-based phenotyping and multi-omics integration, but their reliability degrades sharply outside the environments and germplasm on which they were trained. The … Persistent obstacles include trait complexity arising from epistasis and pleiotropy, poor cross-environment transferability of predictive models, and regulatory frameworks that vary widely by jurisdictio
03661|Combining transfer learning and hyperspectral data to identify the severity of mild Fusarium head blight infection in wheat
   > random forest (RF), and gradient boosting decision tree (GBDT) algorithms, and their cross-dataset transferability was analyzed. Finally, the TCA-ALA-RR transfer model was developed and applied to
03662|Integrated transcriptomic and clinical analysis of autism spectrum disorder reveals structured heterogeneity and links Methyl‐CpG Binding Domain Prote
   > heterogeneity beyond symptom-based classification. Integration of transcriptomic and phenotypic data demonstrated moderate cross-domain correspondence. Among recurrent molecular signals, MBD2 showed consistent upregulation across subgroups and
03663|Meta-constrained extreme learning machines: a novel approach for classification problems
   > Abstract Extreme learning machine (ELM) is a fast and generalizable learning model widely used in classification and regression tasks. Meta-ELM improves the performance of the ELM by combining multiple base ELMs, each trained on different data partitions. These base models were then used as hidden
03664|Estimation of Wheat Grain Protein Content at Multiple Growth Stages Based on Space–Air–Ground Collaborative Observation Data
   > (R2) of 0.91 and a root mean square error (RMSE) of 1.77. Cross-year validation gave a correlation coefficient of 0.80 and RMSE of 3.83. Data
03665|Integrating important tile filtering and pathology foundation model for lung cancer mutation prediction from pathological images
   > [no abstract]
03666|The role of multimodality in clinical disease diagnosis: advances, challenges, and opportunities
   > physiological measurements, and textual clinical documentation. Consequently, unimodal systems often lack robustness, generalizability, and clinical reliability. This survey provides a comprehensive and methodologically grounded review … such as modality heterogeneity, incomplete data, fairness disparities, interpretability limitations, and cross-institutional distribution shift to representative 
03667|Selection of optimal spatial window size for winter wheat LAI retrieval based on UAV multispectral imagery and the PROSAIL model
   > both hybrid models and empirical models initially improved (R 2 increase, RRMSE decrease) and subsequently reached a saturation state. Accordingly, the optimal SWS for LAI … stages and optimal SWS (R 2 = 0.27–0.53, RRMSE = 14.75%–21.09%) in cross-year validation. Collectively, our hybrid method demonstrates significant potential for providing practical reference
03668|World’s top 50 high-impact research studies in traditional medicine in 2024
   > Alzheimer’s disease pathology by mitophagy inducers identified via machine learning and a cross-species workflow Nature Biomedical Engineering Xie et al.[33] 34 Phytochemical/biosynthesis research Functional characterization … hybrid scan approach enabling the ion-mobility separation and the alternate data-dependent and data-independent acquisitions (HDDIDDA): Its combination with off-line two-dim
03669|How Much Does Protein Structure Really Help? A Case Study in Mutation-Induced Stability Prediction
   > testbed, a phenotype expected to depend strongly on three-dimensional geometry, we introduce generalizable diagnostic methodologies: systematic channel ablations quantifying each modality’s marginal contribution, and context-radius … progressively larger neighborhoods around mutations to spatially localize predictive signal. Across ten independent runs per condition, we find PLM embeddings dominat
03670|Minimizing the Limitations in Improving Historical Aerial Photographs with Super-Resolution Technique
   > land, farmland, residential areas, and forested regions were extracted from orthophotos of different years with different spatial resolutions. In addition, images with intensity values in … contribution of the suggested approach. Training of two different datasets was performed independently using a deep learning-based super-resolution model, and the same test images were
03671|Bridging data gaps of rare conditions in ICU: a multi-disease adaptation approach for clinical prediction
   > scarcity and intra-condition heterogeneity. To bridge such gaps, we developed KnowRare, a domain adaptation-based deep learning framework for predicting clinical outcomes for rare conditions in … flexibility in adapting its parameters to accommodate dataset-specific and task-specific characteristics, its generalisation to common conditions under limited data scenarios, and its rationality in selec
03672|Research Progress on Intelligent Measurement Technologies for Livestock Body-Size Phenotypes Based on 3D Point Clouds
   > methods integrating keypoint detection, point cloud segmentation, regional constraints, posture adaptation, and cross-species transfer is identified.[Conclusions and Prospects]Existing studies indicate that three-dimensional point cloud-based livestock … remain, including unstable point cloud quality in complex farming environments; insufficient robustness, transferability, and edge-deployment cap
03673|AGRI-VISION
   > is also thoroughly examined. This review highlights key obstacles to deployment, namely cross-domain generalization failures, algorithmic biases stemming from unrepresentative training data, and the absence of
03674|Artificial intelligence for animal science: from applications to integrated knowledge systems
   > even identify individual animals within a herd automatically. The current frontier marks another fundamental shift, defined by the rise of generative AI and agent-based systems. … a single analytical framework to reveal previously hidden interconnections and enable proactive, cross-domain optimizations. AI as a system integrator connects siloed domains of dairy science into a digital twin framewor
03675|Multi-objective optimization of “human-grassland-wild ungulate-livestock” system in a typical nature reserve on the Qinghai-Tibetan plateau
   > of HGWL system aiming to increase the ecological and economic benefits and decrease the grassland pressure was constructed using NSGA-II based on the imbalance of … planting structure, livestock structure and other variables in three scenarios. Ecological benefits decreased by 0.50% in economic development priority scenario, and economic benefits decreased by 16.22% in ecological protection priori
03676|Vit-CNN Fusion for Robust Mango Quality Evaluation based on Classification Across Multiple Public Datasets
   > specifically Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), achieve higher accuracies but are unable to generalise across diverse datasets because they cannot capture contextual features. Methods: To address … and 100% on the Mango Classification Dataset), consistently. Additional ablation studies and cross-dataset validation confirm the robustness and scalability of the approach. This work establishes
03677|AFTG-Net: A Deep Attention-based Fusion Framework of Topological and Gradient Features for Pathological Image Analysis
   > [no term] Skeletal muscle pathology is observed by structural disruptions in sarcomeres, increased central nuclei, and changes in myofiber cross-sectional area. In order to classify amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), diabetes, and healthy
03678|A computational walk to the hidden peaks of protein performance
   > characterized training mutants and synthesize and characterize 24 suggested designs. Given the ever-decreasing price for gene synthesis, this low number of required input data makes
03679|Support vector machine classification of 18F-FDG PET scans across subtypes of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis
   > [no abstract]
03680|Predicting bulk density of soils with varying degree of structural degradation using single and multi-parameter based pedotransfer functions
   > [no abstract]
03681|DACA-YakSeg: A Lightweight Dual-Axis Context Attention Network for Efficient and Accurate Yak Segmentation in Wild Pastures With Downstream Morphometr
   > [no term] Yak segmentation in complex wild pasture environments is crucial for intelligent livestock management, yet it faces significant challenges such as low-contrast backgrounds, multi-scale targets, severe occlusions, and limited computational resources
03682|Optimizing low-carbon pathways in Africa: Insights from emission decomposition and future scenarios
   > [no abstract]
03683|CAM-COAST: the database of bird and mammal fauna collected through camera traps in a Natura 2000 coastal site in Italy
   > 2002). Consequently, native plant communities may change as nitrophilous species and/or new generalist or alien species take advantage (Amori et al., 2016;Forbes et al., 2019;Kristensen … new insights about the compounded impacts of climate change, biodiversity loss, soil degradation, pollution, and unsustainable resource use in terrestrial, freshwater, and transitional water ecosystems
03684|Toward precision medicine in SCN3A variants-associated encephalopathies and epilepsy: optimizing genetic diagnosis and molecular subregional effects
   > disease-associated and benign/likely benign SCN3A missense variants were systematically collected via two independent epilepsy geneticists to curate high-confidence dataset. The molecular subregional effects were analyzed … Pathogenic SCN3A variants were statistically more located in transmembrane regions than in other regions, suggesting possible subregional effects. Deep-learning-based tools inc
03685|Synthesis aided design: The biological design‐build‐test engineering paradigm?
   > [no term] An open question in biotechnology concerns the extent to which rapid advancements in DNA reading and writing technologies will shift current paradigms in the engineering of biological systems. The prevailing
03686|Integrated genome-wide analysis of wheat disease resistance proteins provides insights into Fusarium head blight defense mechanism
   > [no abstract]
03687|Comparative genomics across Linum illuminates the evolutionary basis of flax domestication, genome diversification, and seed oil biosynthesis
   > [no term] Flax ( Linum usitatissimum L.) is a globally significant dual-purpose crop cultivated for both bast fiber and seed oil, yet the genomic basis of its diversification and domestication from wild
03688|Predicting gene regulatory networks from multi‐omics to link genetic risk variants and neuroimmunology to Alzheimer’s disease phenotypes
   > [no term] Abstract Background Genome‐wide association studies have found many genetic risk variants associated with Alzheimer’s disease (AD). However, how these risk variants affect deeper phenotypes such as disease progression and immune
03689|Foods of the future
   > [no term] ![][1] ILLUSTRATION: LEONARD DUPOND We asked young scientists to write an advertisement that answers this question: How will food options, food availability, and individuals' food choices change in the future?
03690|Integrated Personalized Prediction Model Identifies a Subgroup of Wild-Type TP53therapy-Related Myeloid Neoplasm Patients with Poor Outcome
   > reproducibility of the final result. The model was subsequently validated in an independent cohort from South Australia. The risk score optimal cut-off was determined using
03691|DFM-Net: A UAV-based multimodal network for rice SPAD estimation using RGB and thermal infrared images
   > [no abstract]
03692|From Decision-Support Tools to Digital Twins: Digital Farming, Data Platforms, and AI for Sustainable Dairy Systems
   > and we identify recurring pitfalls that limit impact, including weak ground truth, dataset shift and drift, fragmented identifiers, and misaligned incentives. We conclude with a
03693|From the micro to the macro – a panoptic lens on wood biology
   > key cell types of wood, fibres and tracheary elements. Providing an impressive cross-species comparison between Arabidopsis, Populus and Picea, Hannele Tuominen (Umeä Plant Science Centre, … and their ecological implications. In an innovative approach to both genetic and external perturbation to wood formation, Andrew Groover (US Forest Service and University of
03694|Because size matters: measuring chloroplast volumes by confocal and scanning electron microscopy
   > [no term] Computational modelling of energy and metabolic fluxes in plants aid the understanding of metabolic pathways in cells. But the dynamics of metabolite and enzyme concentrations are often challenging to quantify
03695|The added value of CoreVESS score and penetration resistance in predicting the soil–water retention curve
   > [no abstract]
03696|Integrating metagenomics into legume breeding: A breeder-centered roadmap from core microbiomes to precision inoculation
   > Metagenomics, culture-independent profiling of genetic material recovered from environmental samples, provides a powerful route … improvement of legume performance. This graphical abstract illustrates a translational pipeline from laboratory to field, integrating synthetic microbial communities (SynComs), predictive model systems, and precision
03697|Large area cotton mapping via adaptive phenological distance method using Sentinel-2 time series imagery
   > [no abstract]
03698|Time-Series Prediction of Sales, Yield, and Fitness Performance
   > absolute error compared to decision tree and support vector machine baselines. A cross-domain synthesis reveals that ensemble tree models consistently deliver competitive results in heterogeneous
03699|KashWalNET: Efficient Walnut Disease Recognition Using K-Means-Guided Segmentation and CNN
   > [no abstract]
03700|A comprehensive tree leaf image dataset for morphometric studies
   > [no term] Abstract Despite similar universal primary physiological functions, plant leaves exhibit myriad shapes and sizes. Understanding this morphological variation is invaluable in plant taxonomy, ecology, evolution, and biomimetics. Achieving a comprehensive
03701|petiteFinder: an automated computer vision tool to compute Petite colony frequencies in baker’s yeast
   > [no term] BACKGROUND: Mitochondrial respiration is central to cellular and organismal health in eukaryotes. In baker's yeast, however, respiration is dispensable under fermentation conditions. Because yeast are tolerant of this mitochondrial dysfunction,
03702|Understanding the impact of structural modifications at the NNAT gene’s post-translational acetylation site: in silico approach for predicting its dru
   > acetylation site of the NNAT gene, showed the highest structural destabilization and decreased molecular flexibility. The validation and quality assessment of the 3D model of
03703|بررسی تغییرات سطحی و حجمی آب دریاچه ارومیه با استفاده از تصاویر ماهواره ای و ارتفاع سنجی ماهواره ای
   > using the amount of the lake surface area and its level in different years, we obtained calculated the volume changes and finally, the obtained resultswere … as well. Conclusion The results indicate that the area of Lake Urmiahas decreased from 5366 square kilometers in 1976 to 633 square kilometers in 2015,
03704|Mapping Vegetation at Species Level with High-Resolution Multispectral and Lidar Data over Large Spatial Area: A Case Study with Kudzu
   > and sampling intensive. Here, we designed a two-step classification workflow to potentially decrease computational cost and sampling effort and to increase classification accuracy by integrating … in this research, and could be easily implemented to map kudzu in other regions as well as map other vegetation species.
03705|A soft sensing approach driven by data and model for estimating internal temperature and refractory lining thickness in rotary kilns
   > [no abstract]
03706|Re-constructing and projecting vegetation coverage area variations: A numerical approach based on MRI-ESM2.0 climatic datasets
   > [no abstract]
03707|Enhanced Nee Estimations in Agroecosystems Utilizing Satellite Remote Sensing and Transfer Component Analysis
   > [no abstract]
03708|Biodiversity Collections, Data, and COVID
   > example. “Dry collections like herbaria are really vulnerable to high humidity, which degrades their DNA and promotes the growth of fungus,” he says. Until museums … They found that copper and zinc levels were unchanged, while lead had decreased over time. “These specimens can be a valuable part of environmental science
03709|Unveiling mode of action of anthelmintics in Caenorhabditis elegans with SydLab™, an on-a-chip automated and high-content screening system
   > [no term] Abstract Anthelmintic resistance in parasitic nematodes presents a growing challenge to animal and human health, driving the need for innovative tools to accelerate drug discovery and mechanistic research. Here, we
03710|Individual-Level Behavioral Dataset Linking Trace Eyeblink Conditioning, Contextual Fear Memory, and Home-Cage Activities in rTg4510 and Wild-Type Mic
   > [no term] This dataset provides synchronized multimodal behavioral measurements from 36 mice across four experimental groups: wild-type and rTg4510 tauopathy mice, each tested with or without doxycycline-mediated suppression of mutant tau expression.
03711|On the biologically relevant chemical space: BioReCS
   > depending on the classes of compounds considered (e.g., small organic molecules, peptides, odorants).Another perspective views CS as a multidimensional space in which molecular properties (both … the development of novel molecular representations (Wigh et al., 2022). Visualization is another critical tool for CS analysis, because these spaces often involve many dimensions;
03712|RED-RHD (Rice Early Detection – Rheumatic Heart Disease): AI-Based Adaptive Multi-Regional System for Early Detection and Murmur Classification of Rhe
   > diastolic murmur classification , demonstrating marked improvements over prior methods with poor cross-dataset generalization (e.g., specificity as low as 4.3% in ResNet-based approaches). These results confirm … learning model based on extracted heart sound features, optimizing prediction accuracy for different regional or demographic populations. By incorporating this adaptive intelligence, RED-
03713|The contradictory nature of ICT as a factor of developing the information society in the conditions of the fourth industrial revolution
   > virtual reality infrastructure. A digital twin is used to analyze and simulate real-world conditions to respond to changes and improve processes. All this is further
03714|Sensitivity of Vegetation Carbon Sink Potential to Climate Change in China
   > [no abstract]
03715|Winter Temperature Prediction in Northeast China: The XGBoost-Based Cold/Warm Year Ensemble Model
   > consistency score (PCS) by 21.1%. The XEM demonstrated remarkable enhancements in the independent sample validation in 2021 and 2022. The ACC achieved its maximum improvement … and ensembles results through weighted averaging. The approach achieves significant improvements in independent validation for 2021 and 2022, offering a robust and adaptable method for temperature prediction that could info
03716|A Unified Domain Transfer Framework for Image Classification
   > [no abstract]
03717|Identifying gene expression programs in single-cell RNA-seq data using linear correlation explanation
   > demonstrate the potential for transfer learning by evaluating similar datasets, showcasing the cross-species sensitivity of linear CorEx. CONCLUSION Our findings validate linear CorEx as a
03718|Sentinel-2-Based Estimation and Mapping of Rice Grain Total Amino Acid Content Using Fractional-Order Multiband Spectral Indices and Feature Selection
   > 2.96), whereas Boruta + Stacking performed best under both four- and five-block spatial cross-validation (R2 = 0.7489 and 0.7750, respectively). These results indicate that FOD-based
03719|Multi-scenario Dynamic Simulation and Optimization of Urban Ventilation Environment: A Case Study of Taiyuan Metropolitan Area
   > Taiyuan metropolitan area varied with time, space, and planning objectives, with a decreasing trend and an increasing trend shown in local areas. Patches of better … extremely good or good is significantly increased. Meanwhile, the ventilation environments in different regions show differences in spatial distribution. Under the natural development scenario, there
03720|Phylogenetic and biogeographical traits predict unrecognized hosts of zoonotic leishmaniasis
   > that are likely to be exposed to and infected by zoonotic Leishmania in the wild. The high number of unrecognized potential hosts emphasizes a need
03721|The Influence of Different-Quality Litter Inputs on Soil Mineralization and Priming Effect in Subtropical Areas
   > of a positive soil priming effect. The addition of Acacia litter to different regions of soil had a positive priming effect, while the addition of
03722|Socioemotional Reciprocity Difficulties in Children Living with Autism Spectrum Disorder
   > is often associated with sensory behavioral differences in individuals with ClwASD. Additionally, new environments or interacting with unfamiliar people can exacerbate difficulties in multi-sensory integration
03723|Molecular signatures of invasive and non-invasive pituitary adenomas: a comprehensive analysis of DNA methylation and gene expression
   > expression, as well as the effect of methylation on gene expression at different sites. Blood samples were analyzed to detect DMRs and DEGs, correlating with
03724|How to prevent malicious use of intelligent unmanned swarms?
   > used to disrupt the RF link between the swarm and its controller. Another approach is jamming the satellite navigation system (SNS), such as GPS, GLONASS, … which have the ability to fly autonomously and coordinate without relying on external controls or satellite systems. In recent years, there have been designs for intelligent unmanned swarms that are capable of navigation independently with ful
03725|Step‐Wise Directed Evolution of an Epoxide Hydrolase Against Progressively Larger Non‐Natural Substrates
   > in a step‐wise fashion and ultimately generate a Cif variant that effectively degrades deoxynivalenol.
03726|Lightweight CNN Transformer Hybrid for Real Time Leaf Disease Detection on Mobile Devices: A Review
   > usability in rural agricultural settings. Finally, the review identifies open challenges, including domain shift, explainability, and few-shot adaptation to unseen diseases, offering insights into designing field-ready, efficient, and robust mobile AI solutions
03727|Sparse-Then-Prune Optimization of ViT and Swin Transformer for Efficient Pest Classification
   > [no abstract]
03728|AI-Based Farmer Query Support and Advisory System
   > The system also supports multilingual interaction, making it accessible to farmers from different regions. By offering timely, accurate, and cost-effective agricultural guidance, the AI-Based Farmer
03729|Genomic prediction for stem rust resistance in the southern United States elite oat (Avena sativa L.) germplasm
   > cross-validation (CV) scenarios: CV1 (untested genotypes), CV2 (incomplete field trials), and CV0 (new environments). Across traits and scenarios, Bayesian models (BayesA, BayesB, and Bayesian LASSO)
03730|Hybrid Quantum Classical AI System to Detect High-accuracy Leaf Disease Recognition and Oesophageal Cancer Diagnosis
   > representation layer in order to help in the effective storage of characteristics, cross-domain learning and intelligent inference between heterogeneous data sets. Experiments are carried out
03731|Estimation of orange tree production by regression from video segments under uncontrolled conditions
   > of considering multiple frames and the feasibility of yield estimation by regression in the wild. These findings are expected to contribute to optimising decision-making in
03732|Genetics of Cocaine and Methamphetamine Consumption and Preference in Drosophila melanogaster
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Illicit use of psychostimulants, such as cocaine and methamphetamine, constitutes a significant public health problem. Whereas neural mechanisms that mediate the effects of these drugs are well-characterized, genetic factors
03733|A novel splicing variant in the TMC1 gene causes non-syndromic hearing loss in a Chinese family
   > and the proband had no history of noise exposure, ototoxic drug usage, external ear trauma, birth injury, hypoxia or asphyxia, or jaundice. No morphological changes
03734|See-Through Soil: Underground Root Tuber Sensing With RF Sensor Networks
   > To deal with the multi-path effects on radio channels, we propose two domain adaptation methods: one-shot fine-tuning to update the neural network model online, and disentangled representation learning (DRL) to transfer a pre-trained model to unseen environments. Experimental results from over 1.7 million RF network measurements show the
03735|Comparative genomics and reproductive mechanisms of fertility in cattle and camels: Implications for assisted reproduction and precision breeding
   > studies reporting molecular, genetic, physiological, or ART evidence related to fertility, enabling cross-species comparisons. Study quality and relevance were appraised, and findings were synthesized narratively
03736|A Biologically Inspired Multi-Scale CNN for Edge-Based Grape Leaf Disease Detection
   > modular integration into IoT-based plant health systems. Future work will focus on cross-crop generalization, multimodal sensing, and adaptive learning under dynamic field conditions.
03737|Platonic Attractors
   > for understanding why self-organization in complex systems is so efficient, resilient, and transferable across substrates. Physical systems spontaneously form ordered structures - crystals, planetary orbits, … grasp the intended core idea, rephrase it clearly, or translate it into another language. This capability suggests that ideas themselves behave like attractors: even noisy
03738|Detection of Floricane Raspberry Shrubs from Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Imagery Using YOLO Models
   > and validation were conducted to evaluate both within-modality detection performance and cross-modality transferability. Under all training scenarios, the YOLO-based detectors reached near-saturated accuracy levels. However, cross-domain assessments demonstrated substantial variability depending on the spectral configuration of the input
03739|Multimodal Question Answering for Botanical Archives: Adapting PaLI-GEMMA 2 to Enhance Exploration of Herbarium Collections
   > work Sklab et al. 2025a, state-of-the-art Computer Vision (CV) models failed to generalize to unseen specimens, relying on superficial cues like labels and mounting paper rather than … to align visual perception with botanical semantics. However, most existing VLMs are trained on general-purpose datasets and fail to capture the specialized features inherent to
03740|A LOSO and XAI Approach for Reliable Decision- Making under Spatial Uncertainty in Pasture Biomass Estimation
   > [no abstract]
03741|Deep Sporenet: A Lightweight Few-Shot CNN For Illumination-Robust Fungal Species Identification on Mobile Devices
   > (iii) a Prototypical Network head for low-sample fungal taxa recognition, (iv) entropy-based test-time adaptation (TENT) for on-device robustness, and (v) temperature scaling for confidence calibration.
03742|The development of brain magnetic resonance approaches in large animal models for preclinical research
   > particles, this spin produces a small magnetic field. When outside of an external magnetic field, spins (protons) will point randomly in any direction, thus yielding … regions (left) and visualized by diffusion tensor imaging within the sheep brain. Another important imaging technique relies on functional MRI approaches. Functional MRI (fMRI) is
03743|Domain-Adaptive Leaf Disease Diagnosis via Customized MobileNetV3-Small: XAI-Guided Severity Scoring and Edge-Deployable API Across Papaya and Lemon
   > renders it infeasible for edge deployment on resource-constrained farmer devices. To assess cross-crop generalizability, zero-shot method was validated on a lemon leaf dataset, attaining 97.91% accuracy.
03744|Untargeted massspectrometry based lipidomics analysis reveals altered lipid profiles in a scribble knockdown-induced colorectal cancer model of Drosop
   > [no term] Abstract Cancer alters host metabolism to meet its nutritional demands. The role of lipids and their association with colorectal cancer (CRC) remains elusive. Scribble (Scrib) is a cell polarity regulator
03745|Integrated Application for Paddy Disease Detection and Remedy Suggestion
   > through user feedback, the app evolves to meet the specific needs of different regions and farming practices. This approach not only enhances efficiency and productivity
03746|Predicting Food Security in Ethiopia using Spatiotemporal Integration of Heterogeneous Data
   > [no abstract]
03747|Yield Prediction in Winter Oilseed Rape Based on Multi-Temporal NDVI and Modelling Approaches
   > 2024 for yield estimation across multiple Lithuanian fields, while explicitly addressing spatial generalisation. The analytical dataset comprised dry yield (t ha−1), monthly NDVI, and field … (DNN). Model performance was assessed using both random (80/20) and a spatially independent field-wise (GroupSplit) validation schemes designed to assess model transferability to previously unseen fields, fur
03748|Skilful Precipitation Nowcasting Using NowcastNet
   > recently proposed NowcastNet, a physics-conditioned deep generative network, to forecast precipitation for different regions of Europe using satellite images. Both spatial and temporal transfer learning is done by forecasting for the unseen regions and year. Model makes realistic predictions and is able to outperform
03749|SPARC-CL: Feature Unlearning for Domain-Adaptive Leaf Disease Classification on Edge Devices
   > [no abstract]
03750|Classification of Acoustic Data with Transformer Model
   > detecting when a queen leaves the hive. We utilize 12-hour recordings from different locations, with the data preprocessed and transformed to be suitable for input
03751|Fault classification of the rolling bearing based on minimax entropy domain adaption augmented with signal generation algorithm
   > on a deep learning framework. The framework consists of a minimax entropy domain adaptation algorithm augmented with a signal generalization algorithm. The function of the signal generalization algorithm is to reduce the domain shift between training and testing datasets that are often obtained experimentally from different working conditions. The generalized signal is then represented in the form
03752|A Novel 2D‐CNN Model Integrating 2D‐Transformed NIR Spectra and Attention Mechanism With Transfer Learning: A Case in SSC Prediction of Pears
   > high efficiency and nondestructiveness. However, it still faces challenges such as data distribution shifts caused by factors like different spectrometers and spectral acquisition environments. In … Field (GASF) and the adaptive star block (ASB) to address the performance degradation of models when spectrometers or environments change. Firstly, the spectrum is transformed
03753|Radiomic Features Define Risk and Are Linked to DNA Methylation Attributes in Primary CNS Lymphoma
   > [no abstract]
03754|A 2 FA: Adversarial Angular Feature Alignment for Multimodal Indoor Object Recognition
   > challenges persist: preserving fine-grained local features in complex environments and achieving robust cross-domain generalization from synthetic data to real-world scenarios. To address the aforementioned challenges, this paper proposes a cross-domain RGB-D indoor object recognition method based on a convolutional neural network (CNN) … classifier proxy task, formulated using adversarial learnin
03755|IMNM: integrated multi-network model for identifying pepper leaf diseases
   > than the benchmark models such as Inception-V4, ShuffleNet-V3, and EfficientNet-B7. In the cross-species generalization verification, the average identification accuracy of the model for apple, wheat, and … color and texture characteristics of highly heterogeneous disease spots and possesses strong cross-crop generalization capabilities. Its technical path lays a theoretical foundation for the dev
03756|Predicting Sugarcane Yield Through Temporal Analysis of Satellite Imagery During the Growth Phase
   > mean GNDVI vegetation index during the growth phase were analyzed in two different locations for two consecutive growth seasons. The research highlights the integration of
03757|Mpox-AISM: AI-Mediated Super Monitoring for Forestalling Monkeypox Spread
   > [no abstract]
03758|Climate change and human activities reshape the water-food-ecology nexus and water-economy decoupling in oasis cities of the Hexi corridor, China
   > annual precipitation showed a weak increase of 0.349 mm/year, and December SPEI-12 decreased significantly by 0.0476/year, indicating a deteriorating climatic water balance under pronounced warming. … and weaker under spatial validation (R 2 = 0.441), indicating stronger temporal generalization than spatial transferability. Crop composition showed pronounced spatial heterogeneity and county-specif
03759|Optimization of Remotely Sensed Variables Selection for Land Cover Mapping
   > [no abstract]
03760|Generalizability of Foundation Models: A Case Study on Cocoa Mapping Across Countries Using Sparse Labels
   > Abstract. Remote Sensing Foundation Models (RSFMs), which are deep neural networks pre-trained on large-scale Earth observation datasets, have become increasingly popular in remote sensing … in zero-shot transfer applications. Still, the FMs show a higher sensitivity towards distribution shifts when fine-tuned in new environments. Based on our experiments, we comprehend insights for the selection 
03761|AI-Powered Animal Repellent System for Smart Farming
   > [no term] Agriculture automation is becoming more and more sophisticated, utilizing Deep Neural Networks (DNN) and the Internet of Things (IoT) to create and implement a wide range of fine-grained controlling, monitoring,
03762|Computational Intelligence for Modeling, Control, Optimization, Forecasting and Diagnostics in Photovoltaic Applications [Book News]
   > neural network model are applied to PV power output forecasting, while a domain adaptation of deep neural networks is proposed for multistep solar irradiance forecasting.
03763|Adversarial Domain Alignment Improves Root Biomass Prediction From SkySat Imagery
   > rooting depth, thereby influencing root biomass and associated canopy spectral responses, causing domain shifts that degrade machine learning (ML) model generalization across growing seasons. In this study, we propose a domain-adaptive framework that … to ~0.08–0.09 kgplot<sup>−1</sup> (60% reduction in RMSE). Diagnostic experiments confirm that strict cross-year generalization remains limited wit
03764|Comparison of CNN, ResNet50, and Xception for Deepfake Image Detection
   > the most effective model in terms of accuracy, precision, recall, F1-score, and generalization. The study followed the Knowledge Discovery in Databases (KDD) framework using the … , to improve detection performance and address challenges like temporal analysis and cross-dataset validation.
03765|CNN‐based multi‐output regression model to estimate infrastructural surface crack dimensions adopting a generalised patch size and FWHM‐based width qu
   > contour models and level‐set segmentation and the second method consists of the domain adaptation of a mathematical morphology‐based method known as FILFINDER. A statistical test … and width‐uncertainty directly from input image patches. The proposed model has been tested on crack patches collected from different locations. Huber loss has been used to ensure the robustness of the
03766|Penerapan Metode Linear Discriminant Analysis Dalam Mendeteksi Kematangan Buah Tomat
   > [no term] Tomatoes are fruits of various shapes and sizes originating from the American continent, the tree can reach a height of 2.5 meters, grows as a fruit plant in fields, yards
03767|An empirical study of CNN models and XAI for grape leaf disease detection based on data split ratios
   > on controlled datasets, with little attention paid to data-partitioning techniques that impact generalization in real-world scenarios. This study examines the effects of three data split ratios (80:10:10, 70:15:15, and 50:25:25) on the generalizability of four convolutional neural network (CNN) architectures, DenseNet121, ResNet50, InceptionV3, and VGG16, … Blight, and Healthy. In addition to the 
03768|Development of an Object Detection Classification Model Using the R-CNN Method to Measure the Quality of Biomass Briquettes
   > briquette images captured on a plain white background with minimal variation. When tested on more complex data images of briquettes against non-uniform backgrounds containing multiple objects, the CNN model’s performance dropped drastically. Under these real-world conditions, accuracy and precision fell below 50%, indicating that the model lacked
03769|Spatially Robust Land Cover Classification with Multi-Seasonal Sentinel-2 Imagery: A Comparison of CNN, UNet++, ConvNeXt and ViT
   > reliable performance estimate and mitigate the effects of spatial autocorrelation, a four-fold spatial cross-validation approach was implemented. Under this spatial validation framework, the convolution-based architectures … ViT configuration trained from scratch ranked last across all spatial folds. Regional transferability was further evaluated in the nearby independent Lake Doirani region, wher
03770|Cross‐regional and temporal generalizability of portable visible spectroscopy for olive maturity classification
   > scarce evidence from Brazilian orchards and almost no evaluation of spatial or temporal transfer. The preserny study investigated whether a portable visible spectrophotometer (400–700 nm,
03771|Croptimization
   > is to build models to suggest the best crops to plant in different locations and predict how much they will grow.The data fed into the
03772|Lightweight Visual Detection Framework for Complex Background Grape Leaf Disease Identification
   > [no abstract]
03773|DNA-metabarcoding analyses of the grapevine wood fungal community in the Krasnodar Region and Crimea
   > assessment of alpha and beta diversity in the analysis of samples from different regions. This article presents an analysis of the wood grapevine fungal community
03774|Hierarchical Two-Stage Hybrid Stacking Framework for Real-Time Strawberry Quality Grading on Edge Devices
   > [no term] Strawberry quality grading is a critical task in post-harvest management due to the fruit's highly perishable nature and significant economic value. While deep learning-based computer vision systems have demonstrated promising
03775|CNN based multi-output regression model to estimate infrastructural surface crack dimensions adopting a generalized patch size and FWHM-based width qu
   > to predict crack-length, crack-width and widthuncertainty directly. The proposed model has been tested on crack patches collected from different locations. Huber Loss has been used to ensure robustness of the proposed
03776|A Shared SF3B1 Neoantigen Is Presented on Primary Malignant Cells and Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Hematopoietic Lines
   > [no term] Myeloid malignancies are susceptible to immunologic destruction but antigen-specific T cell immunotherapies for these diseases are currently limited. Immunotherapies targeting neoantigens created from recurrent protein-coding mutations should selectively eradicate malignant
03777|Multisource Grapevine Phenology Dataset for Smart Farming and AI Modeling
   > [no abstract]
03778|A Novel Spectral Index for Mapping Sunflowers Using Sentinel-2 Imagery
   > (GNDVI). Furthermore, the SII continued to exhibit excellent performance when applied across different years and regions (the Ukrainian site (S2) and Toulouse (S3) in 2022, … Kappa $\ge 0.81$ ). These findings demonstrate that the SII possesses strong spatiotemporal transferability capabilities and robustness, allowing it to maintain high stability in complex
03779|Integrating Hyperspectral and Phenological Features for Cereals Mapping in a Mediterranean Region, Morocco
   > Machine (SVM), and TabPFN — were evaluated using nested random (CV) and spatial cross-validation (SCV) to assess predictive performance and spatial generalization. The hyperspectral-only scenario already achieved high separability, with spatial ROC-AUC values reaching … spatial ROC-AUC, while the fused spectral–temporal representation reduced low-performing cases and improved generalization under 
03780|Highlights from the Literature
   > subset that includes microglia and macrophages. Treatment with anti-PD1 antibodies had efficacy in the wild-type setting, but notably this efficacy was retained in the mice … consistent with a shift to a tumor-suppressive phenotype. There was also a decrease in M2 marker-bearing microglia and macrophages, and this appeared to be mediated
03781|IDENTIFIKASI DAUN KOPASANDA MENGGUNAKAN METODE JARINGAN SYARAF TIRUAN BACKPROPAGATION
   > [no term] Plants are one of the components needed by humans. The science that studies plants has also made rapid progress, as well as plant recognition and identification systems that are useful
03782|Discovery of Genes Underlying Cognitive Resilience in Individuals Predisposed to Alzheimer's Disease Risk
   > AD, and their expression levels were associated with better global cognition and decreased AD neuropathology. Many NDUFs were significantly downregulated in the hippocampus or cortex
03783|China’s clean air and climate policies help improve farmers’ incomes and reduce socioeconomic inequity via mitigating ozone pollution
   > [no abstract]
03784|Estimating reference evapotranspiration using a BiLSTM model incorporating spatiotemporal features in Southwestern China
   > humidity–based (RH) input configurations. Model performance was evaluated using both internal and external cross–validation schemes, with five non overlapping 12 years temporal folds used for … spatial leave one station out validation applied within each climatic zone for external cross–validation, and compared with conventional empirical models and baseline deep learning approaches.
03785|Unveiling horizontal gene transfer in the gut microbiome: bioinformatic strategies and challenges in metagenomics analysis
   > the most important evolutionary mechanisms for bacteria, allowing genetic materials to be transferred across different bacteria [5]. Genetic materials that can move around within a genome or be transferred across different genomes are called mobile genetic elements (MGEs), while genomic islands … Specialized transduction can only carry host genes that neighbor the prophage, whereas generalized tra
03786|AI-Driven Farm-Guard Protection System from Offensive Entry of Nilgai
   > [no term] Agriculture is the backbone of any country's growth, and it is the utmost duty of every people in that country to save it and help in cultivating, but farmers have
03787|Informer-driven yield forecasting with hybrid attention and distributional spatial features from remote sensing and agronomic data
   > [no abstract]
03788|Hybrid CNN–transformer architecture for content based medical image retrieval
   > like cropping and blurring. This research presents a hybrid Neural Network-Transformer encoder trained on four complimentary datasets: the COVID-19 Radiography Database, the Kvasir GI endoscopy … head, and a gated fusion module. In order to improve robustness and cross-domain generalization, this study employs data augmentation that mimics real corruptions during training and evaluates retrieval u
03789|Nanotechnology, biotechnology and artificial intelligence in soil management: New sustainable strategies and approaches to improve modern viticulture 
   > critical discussion of persisting challenges, including nanoparticle ecotoxicity, inoculant field-performance variability, model transferability across terroirs, and the cost of sensor infrastructure for smallholder growers. We
03790|Does domestication trade-off stress tolerance for leaf growth? A search for evidence across eight Pooideae grass species
   > a trade-off is observed in development as wild species exhibited a smaller decrease in elongation zone size under drought than their domesticated counterparts. These nuanced
03791|Cotton boll extraction and single-boll weight estimation based on UAV multispectral imagery
   > with ridge regression, random forest regression, and neural network regression using an independent validation dataset. Maximum likelihood consistently achieved overall accuracy above 97% with Kappa … 0.31 g on the validation set. Relative errors remained below 15% across different years, varieties, and planting densities. This workflow reduces background interference and enables transferable SBW 
03792|Artificial Intelligence-Assisted Structural Analysis of Bones with Paget’s Disease of Bone and Osteoporosis: Lessons from Mouse Models
   > a deep learning (DL) model using a 3D convolutional neural network (3D-CNN) trained on raw µCT images. Leave-one-out cross-validation was applied to evaluate model robustness. Results: Significant differences in volumetric,
03793|Large-Scale Graph Reinforcement Learning in Wireless Control Systems
   > input signal, deep reinforcement learning may fail to scale, limiting the immediate generalization of such scheduling and resource allocation policies to large-scale systems. The interference … on graph neural networks (GNNs), with the number of learnable parameters now independent of the number of plants in the network. We further establish in
03794|Modeling the impact of drainage on peatland CO 2 and CH 4 fluxes and its underlying drivers
   > emissions. Additional comparison with continuous flux data collected in the UK for different sites associated with increasing drainage levels also shows good model performance. Overall, … differences between sites. Over time, simulated emission factors of CO 2 flux decrease because of exhaustion of labile soil organic substrate for decomposition, while reductions in CH 4 emissions are amplified du
03795|GTM: a dual-branch local-global graph learning framework with path-aware optimization for genome assembly
   > across the evaluated genomes. Controlled cross-training experiments further suggest a degree of cross-species transferability while also revealing a notable training-domain effect. The HG002-trained model retained some generalization capacity to plant genomes, whereas the rice-trained model generally showed lower contig … structural assembly performance. These findings suggest that GTM retains a d
03796|Research Progress on Intelligent Color-Sorting Equipment for Post-Harvest Chili Peppers: Machine Vision, Pneumatic Actuation, and System Integration
   > along a perception-to-execution chain, distinguishing pepper-specific sorting systems and component studies from cross-crop engineering evidence. Direct system-level evidence was concentrated in a small number of … feasibility of integrating vision, conveying, and physical separation under specific operating conditions. Cross-crop studies inform the discussion of localization, pneumatic actuation,
03797|A DEEP ENSEMBLE LEARNING AND INTELLIGENT HYBRID FEATURE EXTRACTION MODEL FOR THE PEST DETECTION AND CLASSIFICATION IN CLOUD COMPUTING
   > [no term] This study presents an advanced approach for Pest Detection (PD) through automatic identification of invasive insects using Deep Ensemble Learning (DEL) and intelligent Feature Extraction (FE) techniques. The process begins
03798|TinyML for Low-Power Embedded Intelligent Systems: A Review
   > [no abstract]
03799|Συσκευές αναγνώρισης συμπεριφοράς ζώων και η αξιοποίηση της μηχανικής μάθησης
   > the trend of changes. In this regard, the images provided in three different years were classified to cover two periods of 12-year and 15-year using
03800|Architectural Innovations in CNNs for Robust Face Recognition Across Varied Lighting and Poses: A Comparative Performance Analysis
   > pose, and image quality. Moreover, reliance on benchmark datasets alone often limits generalizability to real-world conditions. In this work, a customized lightweight CNN architecture was designed to … diverse lighting and pose variations. The approach integrates both the Labeled Faces in the Wild (LFW) dataset and a locally collected dataset, ensuring evaluation under benchmark and real-world con
03801|Analysing the Pollutants Dispersion in Erbil City-Kurdistan with Support of Statistical Analysis.
   > A. & MOHAMMED, S. J. 2012. Measurement of ground level ozone at different locations. American Journal of Environmental Sciences, 8, 311. NAAQS Table | Criteria
03802|‘From growth monitoring to berry quality prediction: Advances and challenges in UAV remote sensing for precision viticulture
   > [no abstract]
03803|Lightweight Fine-Tuning for Pig Cough Detection
   > and fine-tuning only the classifier, our approach achieves effective knowledge transfer and domain adaptation with very limited data. We further enhance the model's ability to … good calibration. The results indicate that our framework can achieve high-accuracy and well-generalized pig cough recognition under small-sample conditions. The main contribution of this work
03804|Medicinal Herb Identification Using CNN Model
   > [no term] Abstract: Automated herb identification plays a crucial role in various industries such as cosmetics, medicine, and food, where the need to accurately identify different plant species is essential. However, existing
03805|Animal detection in fields using image processing
   > [no term] One of the primary requirements for sustaining a livelihood is agriculture. Low crop productivity is one of the issues facing farmers in the country. Crops destroyed by wild creatures is
03806|On a quest for solutions
   > lack in objective insights into the decision making process, and (II) rarely generalize well to external sets. Opening the black‐box: need for explainable AI Data‐driven, feature‐agnostic CNN models … learning can detect glaucoma from colour fundus image regions outside the ONH. Generalizability and domain shifts The ability to generalize, generalizability, to unseen data is of crucial importance 
03807|Multispectral image visualization and NDVI-based anomaly detection
   > step in analyzing multispectral images is achieving a visualization that accurately reflects real-world conditions. Effective visualization mechanisms, such as those driven by Machine Learning (ML),
03808|Opportunities and Challenges for Sustainable Management of a Declining Shrub, Uvaria Chamae in Benin (West Africa)
   > [no abstract]
03809|Agro-Residue Forecasting for Biogas-Based Green Rural Electrification in India: A Gaussian Process Regression-Based Decision Framework
   > [no abstract]
03810|A Domain-Invariant and Edge-Efficient Framework for Leaf Disease Classification
   > challenging due to domain variations across different crops and imaging conditions. Models trained on controlled datasets often fail to generalize effectively when crop characteristics, environmental conditions, and image acquisition settings vary. Moreover, many traditional domain adaptation methods incur high computational costs, making them unsuitable for deployment on … Framework for Contrasti
03811|Modified oversampling based borderline SMOTE with noise reduction techniques for IoT smart farming dataset
   > Global population is anticipated to grow exponentially to 10 billion in the future years. To feed the globe, agriculture must be prioritised. Agriculture is vital
03812|A Systematic Review of IoT, Edge Computing, Time-Series Modelling and Control Systems in Precision Irrigation
   > checking predictive soil-moisture forecasting, edge-deployed neural controllers and LoRaWAN telemetry directly against independently published, peer-reviewed sources rather than taking them at face value. A structured … unreferenced market figures are frequently presented with the same confidence as multi-season, independently reproduced results, without distinguishing one evidentiary tier from an
03813|Improving land cover segmentation across satellites using domain\n adaptation
   > Additionally, the land cover tends to differ in appearance from one\nregion to another; therefore, having labeled data from one location does not\nnecessarily help in mapping … from RGB to over twelve\nbands). In this paper, we aim at using domain adaptation to solve the\naforementioned problems. We applied a well-performing domain adaptation\napproach on datasets we have built using RGB images fr
03814|Explainable AI in Grassland Monitoring: Enhancing Model Performance and Domain Adaptability
   > datasets. Additionally, we showcase how explainable AI techniques can unveil the model's domain adaptation capabilities, employing quantitative assessments to evaluate the model's proficiency in accurately
03815|Ground Water Modeling for Analysing the Water Level of Wells Before and After Monsoon
   > [no abstract]
03816|Remote estimation of geologic composition using interferometric synthetic-aperture radar in California's Central Valley
   > correlations among data, suggesting that the model has the potential to be generalized to other regions for indirect estimation of geologic composition. Our results indicate that geologic … expensive and time consuming and may be impractical in some areas. The generalizability of the model sheds light on high spatial resolution geologic composition estimation
03817|Classification of Ancient Writing Systems with Limited Data
   > [no abstract]
03818|A Physics-Corrected ML/DL Framework for Heat Flux Field Prediction in Porous Structure of Sintered Ag
   > [no abstract]
03819|Systematic comparison of band selection strategies and sensor configurations for soil moisture classification using UGV-mounted hyperspectral imagery
   > soil depths (6–24 inches) compared with FX10 alone (0.8889) and the class-matched cross-sensor spectral combination (0.9167). Because the spectra were matched by moisture class rather … maintaining a simpler structure and lower computational complexity. The optimal CNN model trained on the FX17 dataset was further applied to generate image-level soil moisture
03820|Delayed Vegetation Greenness Response to Compound Flash Drought–Heatwave Extremes
   > neural network to regularize threshold-derived event masks, and reserved AVHRR NDVI for independent post-event impact assessment. Flash drought and FDHW frequencies exhibited strong interannual variability … spatially heterogeneous vegetation stress, highlighting the need for post-event monitoring windows and cross-sensor validation to support agricultural risk assessment and adaptation planning.
03821|Learning brain network states for neurological disorders via Koopman dynamics
   > [no abstract]
03822|ANALYSIS OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE'S VARIOUS DOMAIN
   > robotics. Literature review was done to gain insight into the development and cross-domain applications of AI, and comparative analysis was performed on the capabilities and … data properties and special application requirements. The study suggests that fostering a cross-domain perspective of AI can help in selecting the most suitable technique and
03823|Towards geospatial recommendations for restoring site-specific depletion of soil organic matter in a Moroccan semi-arid region
   > digital soil mapping approach in developing appropriate fertility plans and recommendations for other regions.
03824|Predictive modeling and sensitivity analysis to optimize the efficiency and operation conditions of the drying process
   > [no abstract]
03825|Real-World Applications of Anomaly Detection : Detecting the Unexpected Through Distributional Modelling
   > thesis investigates how such methods hold up in real-world applications. Modelling data in the wild results in several challenges compared to the controlled conditions of … fully learned by the model. This paper finds that VAE-style models can generalize better with small amounts of rigidity in cluster positions.The second paper applies
03826|Transfer Orthology Networks
   > present Transfer Orthology Networks (TRON), a novel neural network architecture designed for cross-species transfer learning. TRON leverages orthologous relationships, represented as a bipartite graph between … phenotype of interest. TRON offers a biologically grounded and interpretable approach to cross-species transfer learning, paving the way for more effective utilization of available transcri
03827|Pemodelan AI dengan CNN Untuk Klasifikasi Tanaman Uvaria Grandiflora di Hutan Tropis Indonesia
   > the limited number of images, which may restrict the model’s ability to generalize to broader or more varied data in real-world conditions. Contribution: This research contributes to the development of AI-based tools for
03828|Harmonic-Phenology-Topography Fusion for Sugarcane Classification Using MODIS NDVI Time Series: A Temporally Generalizable and Interpretable Framework
   > [no abstract]
03829|Advances in intelligent animal pose tracking for neuro-behavioral integration
   > [no abstract]
03830|Deep transfer learning for codling moth damage detection in ‘Conference’ pear using X-ray radiography
   > [no abstract]
03831|Can Bolivia Decouple Growth from Extraction?
   > [no abstract]
03832|PSATF-6mA: an integrated learning fusion feature-encoded DNA-6 mA methylcytosine modification site recognition model based on attentional mechanisms
   > neural network technology has facilitated the identification of 6 mA sites on cross-species DNA with enhanced efficacy. Nevertheless, the majority of contemporary neural network models … through an integrated learning framework. The experimental results, obtained through cross-validation with cross-species data, demonstrate that the PSATF-6 mA model outperforms the baseline model. The in-Matthews 
03833|Systems Metabolic Engineering Approaches for Rewiring Cells
   > authors achieved a titer of 3 g L−1, more than tenfold than in the wild type. The laboratory of Irina Borodina presents a comprehensive systems
03834|Artificial Intelligence-Assisted Herbal Formulation Development: From Phytochemical Intelligence to Predictive Nanodelivery and Precision Phytotherapy
   > by small and heterogeneous datasets, herbal batch variability, inconsistent metadata reporting, limited external validation, domain shift, model interpretability, and evolving regulatory frameworks. Future progress will depend on
03835|Lightweight real-time detectors of apple-leaf diseases operating on embedded devices
   > and 139 msec per image, confirming its applicability in real-time scenarios. Furthermore, cross-domain validation, performed on the Global Wheat Head Detection (GWHD) dataset, indicates the stable generalization capabilities of the proposed models across environmental domain shifts. The DCL-YOLO's source code is publicly available at: https://github.com/q123-code/dcl-yolo.
03836|Predicting cyanotoxin concentrations in freshwater ecosystems: Bridging molecular indicators and explainable artificial intelligence
   > validation design. Reported short-horizon forecasts have achieved threshold accuracies of approximately 85-94%. Leave-one-location-out testing of models based on passive-sampling data from 10 lakes and 12 monitoring locations yielded AUCs of 0.54-0.96, indicating substantial variation in cross-location transferability. Molecular measurements improve toxin specificity but provide upstream signals r
03837|Soil organic carbon stability and greenhouse gas mitigation through AI-enabled precision land leveling and nutrient management: A systematic review
   > use by 20-30%, while maintaining or increasing grain yield by 5-10%, concurrently decreasing N₂O emissions by 25% (FAO, 2022; Naresh et al., 2021) [11, 37]. … monitoring, microbial carbon dynamics (Cotrufo et al., 2013) [7], and AI model transferability across agro-ecologies. The review concludes that AI-enabled precision interventions can significantly enhance
03838|Intelligent System to Aid in the Detection of Cocoa Diseases by Processing Images of Infected Leaves
   > image segmentation, quantitative descriptors, and machine learning can detect these diseases under real-world conditions in Tonkpi. A corpus of 805 images of cocoa leaves, divided
03839|Critical Review on Water Quality Analysis, Treatment and Monitoring Using Internet of Things and Artificial Intelligence for Drinking Water
   > for widespread operational deployment . Recommendations are provided for standardizing protocols, enhancing cross-site model generalization, and developing interpretable algorithms to bridge the gap between research innovation and
03840|A Model-Agnostic Rapid Prototyping Framework for Image Processing at the Edge
   > [no abstract]
03841|Molecular and phenotypic footprints of climate in native Arabidopsis thaliana
   > providing ecological evidence that temperature signaling pathways defined in controlled environments operate in the wild, and expanded this regulatory landscape by identifying hormonal receptors, signaling
03842|Journal of Macrofungi
   > detection models, and data balancing methods, and presents how they affect classification performance.Cross-dataset comparison suggests that, under controlled conditions, ML and DL can achieve nearly perfect accuracy, while challenges such as generalization, small datasets, and class imbalance are observed.We conclude the paper by discussing … directions of this burgeoning field, including multimo
03843|Night Vision Thermal sensor based Animal Movement Observation using CNN and YOLO v3
   > [no term] Developing an automated system for wildlife detection and recognition using thermal cameras can be challenging nowadays, which have many applications in wildlife conservation and management. This includes many challenges like
03844|SoilSound: Smartphone-based Soil Moisture Estimation
   > that SoilSound achieves a mean absolute error (MAE) of 2.39% across 10 different locations. Overall, the evaluation shows that SoilSound can accurately track soil moisture
03845|Medicinal Herb Identification
   > [no term] Automated herb identification plays a crucial role in various industries such as cosmetics, medicine, and food, where the need to accurately identify different plant species is essential.However, existing methods often
03846|A Clinically Practicable Approach to Predict TP53 Allelic Configurations in Myeloid Neoplasia
   > assessment, we applied ML-driven recursive partitioning on cumulative hazard objective benchmarked to external survival data. Obligatory biallelic cases were identified among patients with: i) single … and biallelic TP53MT based on the frequency of VAF splitting criteria and decrease in error. Thus, we classified TP53MT into: A) "obligatory" biallelic (OBi), B)
03847|Multi-Source Pollution Effects on Animal Health
   > long-term danger to animal health in agriculture and peri-urban as well as in the wild environment. These organisms are continuously exposed to multiple flows of … physiological systems that form the major biological points of contact with the external milieu, and often reveal pathological changes that are noticeable before the systemic
03848|Neuromorphic SLNN+NdFractal+HRR Fusion Layers for Predictive Maintenance: Evidence from Turbofan RUL, Bearing Run-to-Failure, and Wind Gearbox Vibrati
   > disrupt operations, and whether critical failures are missed. This preprint summarizes three independent nmSentinel prototypes based on a neuromorphic `SLNN+NdFractal+HRR` warning layer: a turbofan remaining-useful-life … a strong vibration baseline and from a one-class deep autoencoder under healthy-condition distribution shift. These results do not claim state-of-the-art RUL accuracy, direct sup
03849|Daily soil temperatures at varying depths in Bangladesh during 2001–2022
   > outperforming individual models and effectively handling diverse data patterns, complex relationships, and unseen data. From January 1, 2001, to December 31, 2022, all meteorological factors … Bangladesh allow for a holistic understanding of soil temperature evolution patterns across different regions of Bangladesh. These insights will be crucial for addressing forest conservation
03850|Animal Detection and Alert System
   > [no term] Abstract - Wild animals (e.g. elephants, tigers, boars) can cause severe crop damage and endanger farm communities. This paper presents a smart Animal Detection and Alert System for farms. A
03851|A Two-Stage Reference-Guided Workflow for Improving VIIRS Leaf Area Index Retrieval over Mixed Pixels
   > 2020–2021 data from 11 U.S. GBOV sites. Performance was evaluated by same-site temporal transfer to 2019 and 2022 and by strict leave-one-site-out (LOSO) validation. Label calibration improved agreement with GBOV from a coefficient of
03852|EarthNet2021: A novel large-scale dataset and challenge for forecasting localized climate impacts
   > Climate change is global, yet its concrete impacts can strongly vary between different locations in the same region. Seasonal weather forecasts currently operate at the
03853|Image Processing from Handcrafted Operators to Foundation Models: A Critical Review of Methods, Applications and Recent Advances
   > rather than as a catalogue of algorithms. It considers image formation and degradation, classical spatial and variational methods, non-local and sparse modelling, convolutional neural networks, … capability, although their computational cost, dependence on pretraining and uncertain behaviour under distribution shift limit universal claims of superiority. Across applications, benchmark gains freque
03854|Wildlife Detection and Intrusion Alert System
   > by animal attacks resulting in reducing the crop yield is also yet another consequence.Hence their activity must be monitored continuously in order to take action
03855|Coffee extraction from remote sensing imagery based on multiple features: a case study of Pu’er City, China
   > cultivation. The proposed feature input strategy shows strong potential for application in other regions with similar agro-ecological conditions, supporting precision agricultural management and promoting sustainable
03856|Exploring the Utility of a Multivariate Soil Hyperspectral Reflectance Model for Estimating Soil Moisture Using Sentinel-2 Data
   > Accurate and spatially transferable estimation of soil moisture is critical for sustainable agriculture, water resource management, … satellite data remains challenging due to heterogeneous soil conditions and limited model generalizability, especially when interactions between soil moisture and clay content are neglected. This
03857|Hyperspectral remote sensing extraction of pitaya number by combining spectral transformation and feature selection
   > images of pitaya growing areas in Shangguan town, Guanling county, Guizhou province. Different regions were divided according to surface complexity and the spectral curves of … the best effect on the number of pitaya, and the accuracy in different regions was above 83.33%. [Conclusion] The combination of continuum removal transformation and
03858|Advancing diagnosis of bipolar disorder using brain morphometric similarity networks in a graph AI framework
   > volumes (GMV), ii) MS integration with age, sex, and GMV, iii) a leave-one-site-out cross-validation for multi-site model generalizability evaluation. The best model achieved a mean multi-site accuracy of 68%. Explainability
03859|Considering the Future of Geroscience: Goals and Opportunities Stemming From the Fourth Geroscience Summit
   > individuals living in industrialized environments, whether from indigenous or nonindigenous groups (9,10). Another important element to moving geroscience forward in an equitable and inclusive way … and thus of multimorbidity and disability rates are rising, with the attendant decrease in quality of life. Although therapeutic treatments for cancer and human immunodeficiency
03860|Elephant Presence Detection for Early-Warning in Kenya: A CNN Transfer-Learning Approach
   > keeping the natural imbalance in the validation and test sets to reflect real-world conditions. Five ImageNet-pretrained backbones (VGG16, ResNet50, InceptionV3, Xception, MobileNetV2) are tested using
03861|Agro Guard Edge AI - Development of Sustainable IoT Framework for Wildlife Intrusion Detection
   > [no term] The rising global population and increasing food demand have placed immense pressure on agriculture, particularly in regions like the Marudhamalai foothills in Coimbatore district, where farmers face frequent crop damage
03862|An adaptive architecture for portability of greenhouse models
   > task by means of adaptive neural networks, which re-adjust their weights when transferred to new conditions. Such an adaptive account for computational models is typical … tomato photosynthesis, developed in a research facility, can adapt itself to a new environment in a production greenhouse. Further research will focus on model plasticity
03863|Backpropagation Algorithm for Predicting Rainfall in Anyigba, Kogi State, Nigeria
   > the use of ensemble methods, and the adaptation of the model to other regions with similar climatic conditions. This research presents a promising approach to
03864|Classification of Abandoned Areas for Solar Energy Projects Using Artificial Intelligence and Quantum Mechanics
   > In terms of Mean Squared Error (MSE), the QPSO-LMA approach achieved a decrease of 19.6% in relation to the classical LMA training with random initial … QPSO-LMA over the LMA. To validate this new approach, it was also tested on six different datasets available in the UCI Machine Learning Repository and
03865|A Bayesian Optimization-Driven Transformer–BiLSTM Framework for Robust Environmental Time-Series Modelling Across Heterogeneous Ecosystems
   > [no abstract]
03866|Conceptual model for embedded AI units in next-generation telecom network optimization
   > telecom ecosystems, contributing to economic development, environmental protection, and digital transformation. The cross-domain approach provides a blueprint for future research on embedded AI systems that
03867|Pollutant-specific and scale-dependent riparian responses of water quality in the Huangshui River basin, a plateau agro-urban watershed
   > total phosphorus (TP), with model interpretation via SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) with spatial cross-validation. Results showed selective water quality impairment, with 23.3% of sampling records
03868|Caracterización bioinformática de la relación entre el impacto molecular de las variantes patogénicas y el fenotipo clínico
   > [no term] The advent of Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) carries the promise to change medicine's paradigm, but sequencing data comes with a myriad of noticeable technical and methodological challenges. Those hurdles difficult
03869|AI-enabled UAV-based Soil Organic Carbon Mapping in Arid Environments: A Pilot Study Protocol
   > and uncertainty assessment. It establishes defined procedures for evaluating model robustness and transferability across varying field conditions. The framework addresses an important methodological gap in
03870|Domain-Invariant Feature Learning for Cross-Temporal Soil Salinity Mapping using Deep CORAL
   > [no abstract]
03871|A Survey on Farm Protection Systems
   > [no term] Abstract—Wild animal intrusion poses a significant and persistent threat to agricultural productivity, particularly in rural and forest- adjacent areas. This paper presents a detailed comparative survey of different research studies
03872|HPAI Surveillance-Priority Modelling in Delaware and Maryland: Code and Reproducible Workflow
   > rare-event modelling of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza surveillance priority in Delaware and independent spatial transfer evaluation in Maryland. The workflow harmonizes poultry-house, wetland, hydrographic, land-cover, terrain, … without wild-bird occurrence predictors. The Delaware-trained model is also evaluated on an independent Maryland 3-kilometre grid without using Maryland observations 
03873|Data-driven approaches outperform dynamical models for subseasonal-to-seasonal precipitation forecasting in Senegal
   > planning, and water resource management. The proposed methodology can be extended to other regions with different climatic characteristics.
03874|Accelerating SLC Transporter Research: Streamlining Knowledge and Validated Tools
   > [no term] A modern, rational approach to a large class of proteins broadly relevant for pharmacology is enabling both from a postgenomic perspective and for reasons of economy of scale. The international
03875|AI-Based Species Richness Prediction Models
   > surveys, yetsystematic comparison of AI-based prediction model performance against traditional statistical approaches (generalisedlinear models, random forests) for species richness mapping is rare. This study benchmarked eight prediction models --linear regression, generalised additive models (GAM), random forest (RF), gradient boosting (XGBoost), convolutionalneural network (CNN), … included. Ho
03876|Watershed Change Detection Using Hybrid Conceptual Model-Artificial Intelligence
   > model. Finally, the obtained model detected watershed land use/cover changes in the future years with dynamic watershed assumption. For the validation, the results were compared … from 1990 to 2013 were aligned with the SC reduction e.g., 26% decrease of SC for downstream sub-watershed versus 53% decrease and 21% increase of forest and crop lands, respectively.
03877|Cbam-augmented ResNet for high-accuracy grape leaf disease detection
   > [no abstract]
03878|Fatty Acid Composition of Some Seed Oils from Arid Zone of Rajasthan and their Iodine Values for Scope in Biodiesel Production using ANN Technique
   > [no term] The Arid Zone of Rajasthan is a vast reservoir of desert plants. The seed oil is an important product obtained from the wild plants. The fatty acid composition of seed
03879|Advancing climate resilience through artificial intelligence: A comprehensive review across urban and climate-sensitive sectors in Morocco
   > broad coverage, but sparse ground observations, restricted institutional data, resolution mismatch, limited spatial transfer testing, and minimal use of explainable AI constrained reproducibility and operational … extends narrower domain reviews and provides an evidence-based roadmap for reproducible, locally generalizable, and trustworthy climate-AI systems.
03880|EFFINET-CL: A FRAMEWORK FOR LEAF DISEASE DETECTION AND CLASSIFICATION USING CONTINUAL LEARNING
   > continual learning strategies. The proposed model leverages data augmentation techniques for improved generalization and integrates continual learning through Elastic Weight Consolidation (EWC) and Replay Memory … it to learn continually from new disease classes. The integration of an Out-of-Distribution (OOD) detection mechanism further improves the ability of the model to recognize
03881|Heat stress amelioration for pasture-based dairy cattle: challenges and opportunities
   > heat gain. An imbalance leads to hyperthermia (increased core temperature) or hypothermia (decreased core temperature) (Figure 1). We define increased heat load as the thermal
03882|Intensity-Texture Enhanced Swin Fusion for Bacterial Contamination Detection in Alocasia Explants
   > a Swin Transformer-based module is integrated to model long-range spatial dependencies, ensuring cross-domain integration between the texture and intensity features. We formulated a composite loss
03883|SeasonalViT: A Dual-Scale Temporal Transformer for NDVI Forecasting
   > model separates vegetation dynamics into two temporal scales: within-year phenological transitions and across-year trends spanning decades. Rather than predicting absolute NDVI values, it forecasts deviations … spatio-temporal methods. SeasonalViT achieves the best performance under spatial, temporal, and combined distribution shift. The advantage is the greatest for land covers with structured in
03884|A lightweight spectral qualitative analysis method based on Res-Inception
   > fully capture the nonlinear features embedded in high-dimensional spectral data, with their generalization performance severely constrained by prior domain knowledge and dataset characteristics. Although existing … are custom-developed for specific tasks in a single domain, resulting in insufficient multi-domain generalizability, while their large parameter count and computational complexity restr
03885|India's Growing Nuclear Medicine Infrastructure and Emergence of Radiotheranostics in Cancer Care: Associated Challenges and the Opportunities to Coll
   > first formal nuclear medicine training course (DRM) for medical graduates. Subsequently, an another prominent institute, namely, Radiation Medicine Centre (RMC) was built-up in Mumbai under … making these treatment affordable to a large section of the patients in different regions of the country. However, still many larger centers are dependent on
03886|Fundus Image-based Glaucoma Screening via Retinal Knowledge-Oriented Dynamic Multi-Level Feature Integration
   > glaucoma cases. Additional validations on the SMDG-19 benchmark further confirm its superior cross-domain generalization, indicating that our contribution provides a robust, interpretable, and scalable solution for
03887|Optimizing Thermal Analysis and Heat Transfer in Mechanical Design Using an Advanced Hybrid WHO–MFDNN Method
   > [no term] Applications for heat exchangers are many and include power plants, air conditioning, chemical and chemical engineering, and other scientific fields. The cost of materials and energy has increased recently, placing
03888|Soil Organic Carbon Dynamics in Northeast China Under Water Erosion: Spatiotemporal Patterns and Driving Mechanisms
   > [no abstract]
03889|A Comparison of Feature Engineering and Representation Learning for Multiclass Dye Penetrant Defect Classification on Centrifugally Cast Steel Tubes
   > [no abstract]
03890|Robust Model-Based Iteration for Passive Gamma Emission Tomography
   > convolutional neural network, Fourier Neural Operators, and Wavelet Neural Operators. Each is trained on a small set of coarsely simulated 9x9 assemblies. Experiments on simulated … one third of the iterations, while revealing architecture-dependent trade-offs in robustness against out-of-distribution inputs.
03891|Target-protected correction decouples moisture masking for hyperspectral detection of microplastics in wet paddy soil
   > [no abstract]
03892|In-season cotton yield forecasting using high resolution satellite imagery
   > [no abstract]
03893|Evaluation of the Potential Use of Multimodal Models for Land Cover Classification
   > and Forestry-managed Land).The results showed that the Clipseg model demonstrated the highest generalization performance in new environments, achieving the highest accuracy among the three models with an Overall … showed high accuracy in the training area (Area1), they exhibited limitations in generalization ability with accuracy decreases of 29% and 20% respectively in the test area.The Clipseg m
03894|Digital Twin Modeling for Smart and Autonomous Farming
   > [no abstract]
03895|Filling the gap: Estimation of soil composition using InSAR, groundwater depth, and precipitation data in California’s Central Valley
   > 40% of the training data (NNSE=0.8), suggesting that the model can be generalized to other regions for indirect estimation of soil composition. Our results indicate that soil … expensive and time consuming and may be impractical in some areas. The generalizability of the model sheds light on high spatial resolution soil composition estimation
03896|SPAD Retrieval of Jujube Canopy Using UAV-Based Multispectral and RGB Features with Genetic Algorithm–Optimized Ensemble Learning
   > 0.214–2.593; MAPE = 0.01–0.045 in 2024) in the training dataset, and robust cross-year transferability (R2 = 0.541–0.608; MSE = 0.698–5.139; MAPE = 0.015–0.058 in 2023). These … incorporating phenological perception into multi-source data fusion substantially reduces interference and enhances generalizability, providing a scalable and reusable strategy for precision orchard management and spatiote
03897|When spectral libraries are too complex to search: Evolutionary subset selection for domain-adaptive calibration
   > These libraries can provide training samples for developing models adapted to specific target domains. However, identifying which samples are most relevant for a given target domain remains challenging. This study introduces gesearch, a non-linear evolutionary algorithm for … soil spectral library to build predictive models of total carbon for an independent target area in the Democratic Republic 
03898|Advancing hyperspectral nutrient modeling through transfer learning: Insights from foliar N–P–K estimation in cranberries
   > sensing offers a promising approach for estimating foliar nutrient concentrations, yet the transferability of predictive models across different spatial, temporal, and plant domains remains a … we systematically evaluated the effectiveness of transfer learning techniques for improving the transferability of hyperspectral models in predicting cranberry foliar nitrogen (N mass ), phosphorus
03899|Μοντέλα βελτιστοποίησης για τον σχεδιασμό ερμηνεύσιμων αρχιτεκτονικών βαθιάς μάθησης σε εφαρμογές επεξεργασίας πολυδιάστατων σημάτων
   > and enhance performance in tasks such as spectral and LiDAR super-resolution and cross-domain recommendation, ultimately improving the accuracy and efficiency of multidimensional signal processing across … mentioned approaches. To utilize the domain-level dependencies, we develop coupled domain or domain adaptation methodologies based on novel frameworks with coupled dictionaries, coupled autoenco
03900|Design and Validation of a Temperature-Informed Transfer Learning Framework for Electronic Noses at the Edge
   > [no abstract]
03901|Compact CNN-Transformers match larger models for spatially-robust soil organic carbon mapping at regional scale
   > topsoil samples (2007–2023) with a 43-band multi-temporal covariate stack, under 10-fold longitude-blocked spatial cross-validation. Every attention model clusters within one fold standard deviation, so a
03902|Detection of Christmas tree plantations from high-resolution aerial imagery. A case study in the French Morvan
   > (iii) it evaluates the proposed framework across complementary levels, including supervised testing, temporal transfer, and large-scale validation. On the 2020 test set held out, the … the precision-recall curve from 0.204 to 0.913. Temporal inference further shows meaningful transferability, reaching IoU/F1 values of 0.751/0.858 on 2017/2018 and 0.691/0.817 on 2023. Large-scale
03903|Non-Targeted Screening Method for Detecting Temporal Shifts in Spectral Patterns of Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus and Post Hoc Descripti
   > adaptation, virulence, or resistance mechanisms, resulting in large prediction uncertainties and potentially degrading NTM performance. We present a comprehensive screening method to detect temporal changes … methods, including significance testing, kernel density estimation, and receiver operating characteristics for dataset shift detection. We employ Gradient-weighted Class Activation Mapping (G
03904|Non-targeted screening method for detecting temporal shifts in spectral patterns of Methicillin Resistance Staphylococcus aureus and post-hoc descript
   > adaptation, virulence, or resistance mechanisms, resulting in large prediction uncertainties and potentially degrading NTM performance. We present a comprehensive screening method to detect temporal changes … methods, including significance testing, kernel density estimation, and receiver operating characteristics for dataset shift detection. We employ Gradient-weighted Class Activation Mapping (G
03905|Explainable ensembles and transformer‑centric learning in vision and beyond: Methods, validation and deployment assurance
   > [no term] Ensemble learning and transformer‑centric architectures now dominate vision and decision support, yet practitioners lack unified guidance on method selection, explainability and assurance. This title‑driven scoping review synthesises studies across healthcare,
03906|Uncertainty-Aware Tree Root Morphology and Phenotypic Parameter Reconstructed From Ground-Penetrating Radar Signal via Physics-Informed Variational Ne
   > detection, yet existing approaches suffer from limited uncertainty quantification and poor cross domain generalization capabilities. This paper presents a physics-informed variational generative framework that integrates … functional, and biomass related traits. Notably, the framework exhibits robust cross domain transferability through physics-informed constraints alone, eliminating dependence on
03907|Prediction of environmental indicators in land leveling using artificial intelligence
   > investigated. The study was consisted of 90 samples were collected from 3 different regions. The grid size was set 20 m in 20 m (20*20)
03908|Robust Zero-Shot Sim-to-Real Transfer in Agri-CPS: A Digital Twin Framework with Volumetric Overlap Feedback
   > [no abstract]
03909|The 3rd anniversary of Frontiers in Virology: aiming to consolidate the virus research
   > influenzapandemics by new type viruses. About 40 years ago, we also encountered another dreadful and readily mutable virus HIV-1 that causes AIDS. Since the AIDS
03910|Evaluation on Ecological Benefit of Land Remediation from the Perspective of Ecological and Landscape
   > can provide reference for the ecological benefit evaluation of land reclamation in different regions.
03911|Advances in Data Mining and Intelligent Analytics
   > ever. Advances in Data Mining and Intelligent Analytics - Methods, Interpretability, and Cross-Domain Applications offers a timely and focused exploration of how modern data mining … this book include its integration of foundational knowledge with advanced methods, its cross-domain applicability, and its focus on scalable and responsible data use. By connecting
03912|Effectiveness of Spectral Analysis for Evaluating Internal Quality of Korla Fragrant Pears Under Different Detection Distances
   > only a single producing region, harvest season, and maturity stage, and no independent external validation dataset was used. Therefore, the generalization ability of the developed models needs to be further verified using cross-season and cross-orchard sample sets.
03913|P104: BASE EDITING REPAIRS THE HBE MUTATION RESTORING THE PRODUCTION OF NORMAL GLOBIN CHAINS IN SEVERE HBE/β-THALASSEMIA PATIENT HEMATOPOIETIC STEM AN
   > [no term] Aims: HbE/β-thalassemia is the commonest form of severe β-thalassemia, and comprises approximately 50% of all cases worldwide1. HbE/β-thalassemia is caused by the HbE codon 26 G>A mutation on one allele
03914|Cross-Regional Grapevine Cold Hardiness Prediction via Learned Multimodal Latent Representations
   > biophysical, hybrid, and deep learning models have shown high predictive accuracy when trained on local data but remain largely site-specific. The limited availability of cold … with the lack of principled methods for transferring cold hardiness predictions to new regions and cultivars, has limited the broader adoption and practical utility of
03915|Intelligent Defect Recognition System for Fish Product Packaging Using Machine Vision
   > approach reduces classification errors caused by background differences between the dataset and real-world conditions. A custom labelled image dataset was collected on a prototype conveyor
03916|Improving understanding and management of acute heart failure, myocarditis, pericarditis, amyloidosis, mitochondrial cardiomyopathies, hypertrophic ca
   > to differentiate CA from phenotypic controls using transthoracic apical four-chamber video clips. External validation was conducted globally across 18 sites including 597 CA cases and 2122 controls. Classification accuracy was assessed on the entire external validation dataset, and subgroup analyses were performed both on technetium pyrophosphate scintigraphy … AI predictions (13%), model discrimi
03917|Task-Adaptive Meta-Learning Framework for Advancing Spatial Generalizability
   > However, spatio-temporal data often exhibit complex patterns and significant data variability across different locations. The labels in many real-world applications can also be limited, which makes it difficult to separately train independent models for different locations. Although meta learning has shown promise in model adaptation with small … to a large number of heterogeneous tasks. It also e
03918|Acoustic-Based Queen Bee Status Recognition: A Transfer Learning Approach Refinement
   > of a healthy queen. Acoustic monitoring has emerged as a promising non-invasive, lighting-independent approach for long-term colony observation. However, existing studies have largely been confined … evaluation has relied primarily on overall performance metrics, with insufficient attention to cross-region generalization and the detection of queen loss, a rare but critical condition. This
03919|Enhanced Performance of Pre-Trained Networks by Matched Augmentation Distributions
   > [no term] There exists a distribution discrepancy between training and testing, in the way images are fed to modern CNNs. Recent work tried to bridge this gap either by fine-tuning or re-training
03920|Block-Level Avocado Yield Forecasting from Two-Year Lagged Sentinel-1, Sentinel-2, and Climate Predictors Using Gradient Boosting and Tabular Foundati
   > [no abstract]
03921|Advancements in abiotic stress resistance in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.): Integrating genomics, breeding and agronomic innovation
   > [no term] Sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) is highly resilient to abiotic stresses such as drought, heat, salinity, cold and nutrient deficiencies, making it an important crop for food security under changing climates. This
03922|Advancing Value Transfer Functions for Ecosystem Services: A Spatially Explicit Meta-Analytic approach
   > [no abstract]
03923|Adapting Prithvi-EO for Fallow Detection for Food-Water Nexus: ViT-Adapter Necks and Parameter-Efficient Backbone tuning of Geospatial Foundation Mode
   > Cropland Data Layer (CDL). Geospatial foundation model (GFM), Prithvi-EO has shown strong transferability across computer vision tasks. However, its Vision Transformer (ViT) backbone produces features
03924|IMPLEMENTASI SISTEM PREDIKSI CURAH HUJAN DENGAN PENERAPAN JARINGAN SYARAF TIRUAN BERBASIS WEBSITE
   > to improve prediction accuracy. In addition, this research can be implemented in other regions with different climatic conditions to test the generalizability of the system.
03925|Multi-Task Cascade Forest Framework for Predicting Acute Toxicity across Species
   > experiments to validate the effectiveness of the data enhancement strategy and introduced external dataset experiments to assess the generalization capability of the proposed method for cross-species prediction. In a multi-view context, the feature fusion method and consensus ensemble
03926|Interpretable Transformer-Based Yield Forecasting Under Climate Extremes: A Multi-Layered Explainability Framework and Drought-Year Validation on the 
   > during the severe 2021 drought across the Canadian Prairies — a natural out-of-distribution stress test. We trained a Temporal Fusion Transformer (TFT) on a multi-source … performance (R² = 0.84, RMSE = 0.42 t ha⁻¹) across 2017–2020 but degraded predictably during the 2021 drought (R² = 0.71, RMSE = 0.68 t ha⁻¹). To understand this degradation, we deployed a comprehensive explainable artificial in
03927|The Neural Genome Hypothesis
   > [no term] This preprint presents the Neural Genome Hypothesis, a speculative framework proposing that genomes exhibit functional properties akin to distributed, memory-bearing neural networks, including attractors, latent representations, and context-dependent activation. Drawing
03928|Knowledge-Guided Adaptive Mixture of Experts for Precipitation Prediction
   > sectors. We evaluated our approach using a curated multimodal climate dataset capturing real-world conditions during Hurricane Ian in 2022. The benchmark results show that the
03929|Fusion of Optical and SAR Data Using Three Approaches for the Estimation of LAI With Modified Integral Equation Model
   > accuracy of these estimations is tested against the ground-truth LAI taken at different locations. Among the fusion methods tested, deep learning emerges as the most
03930|FOREST-GC: A conFOrmable Rendering Engine for Synthetic Tree Generation and Counting
   > simulates terrain textures, spatial distributions of trees, and tree shadows to approximate real-world conditions and exposes over 100 customizable parameters to control appearance and layout. … We compare deep learning methods based on object detection or segmentation models trained on the generated data with pre-trained VLMs and an unsupervised computer vision
03931|A Computer Vision Dataset for Pollinator Detection under Real Field Conditions
   > [no term] Abstract The widespread decline in biodiversity and abundance of pollinator insects is expected to provoke cascading effects on food security and jeopardize ecosystem services crucial for many crops and wild
03932|PanTEon: a cross-kingdom framework to guide the design of transposable element classifiers
   > and superfamily. Ensemble approaches and phylum-specific models improve predictive F1 scores, but cross-species generalization remains a major challenge. Together, PanTEon Database and PanTEon platform provide a
03933|PeachDB: accelerating breeding by reducing cost with AI-powered genomic selection in peach
   > phenotypic data were collected over two consecutive growing seasons to assess model generalization ability. Only models with prediction accuracy exceeding 0.7 in the training population … for validation in the hybrid population. The citric acid model exhibited inadequate generalization capability, with the maximum prediction accuracy in the hybrid population reaching merely 0.22. In contrast, the 
03934|Artificial intelligence in poultry processing: applications, validation gaps, and pathways toward intelligent and autonomous processing systems
   > commercial reliability. Many models are developed from small, single-source datasets, use random data partitioning that may permit leakage, rely on uncertain reference labels, or report overall accuracy without class-specific performance, calibration, uncertainty, and external validation. Domain shifts caused by differences among flocks, plants, seasons, equipment, lighting, product orientation,
03935|Artificial intelligence and digital sensing for multiscale soil structure: from observation to decision-making
   > [no abstract]
03936|Prática agrícola sustentável e o desenvolvimento ambiental goiano
   > Catalão, Jataí, and Rio Verde, exhibit greater integration with sustainable production chains, other regions face structural barriers that hinder the adoption of these practices. Considering
03937|Determination of dry bean physiological maturity from UAS RGB time series using a stacking ensemble of color‐derived spectral features
   > dynamic features, four flight‐metadata descriptors, and four cross‐method consensus statistics. To ensure generalizability on completely unseen trials, six base regression models and a random forest stacking meta‐learner were
03938|Current Status and Future Trends of Remote Sensing Monitoring and Mapping of Soil Salinization
   > As a significant form of soil degradation, soil salinization substantially impacts agricultural production and the ecological environment. Remote sensing … machine learning, focusing on the impact of environmental covariate selection methods in different regions on modeling accuracy and summarizing the advantages and disadvantages of various
03939|Rapid identification of boron-tolerant grapevine rootstocks via leaf spectroscopy
   > [no term] Boron is an essential micronutrient for grapevine growth, yet excessive levels can impair photosynthesis, reduce yields, and diminish fruit quality. This study evaluated the potential of leaf spectroscopy combined with
03940|A rapid and non-destructive method to discriminate irradiated Ceratitis capitata (Diptera: Tephritidae) using near-infrared spectroscopy
   > [no term] The sterile insect technique is a strategy to eradicate exotic pest outbreaks by releasing irradiated sterile insects to mate with wild insects, thus interfering with reproduction and leading to population
03941|Patched‐Fuzzy State Feedback Controller for Inverted Pendulum on a Cart Based on PWA ‐Fuzzy Model
   > drawbacks of PWA approximation, i.e., discontinuity in control signal and chattering between different regions, are addressed by the PWA‐Fuzzy model. In this paper, with the
03942|Artificial intelligence–empowered treatment decision-making in patients with aortic stenosis via early detection of cardiac amyloidosis
   > As such, the combination of AoS and age could cyclically potentiate one another.3,4 In clinical practice, echocardiography may readily detect structural and functional cardiac alterations
03943|Geospatializing cotton fiber quality: a step towards on-farm traceability and predictability
   > the value of temporal data and within-field heterogeneity; and (iii) determine the generalizability of these models for predicting quality across unsampled environments. Methods We linked … variation (CV) of predictors captured spatial heterogeneity. Model robustness was evaluated using leave-one-field-out (LOFO) cross-validation. Results All eight fiber quality traits exhibited significant spatia
03944|Deciphering Reservoir Storage Variability: A Multi-Reservoir Assessment of Hydroclimatic Drought Responses in Northwestern Türkiye
   > 2013–2022 was evaluated seasonally using Random Forest (RF), Linear Models (LMs), and Generalized Additive Models (GAMs) under leave-one-year-out cross-validation (LOYO-CV). The agricultural-area NDVI and reservoir characteristics provided contextual information rather
03945|The Lost Combinator
   > (in my case, at the Universities of Sussex and Warwick), until yet another report said AI was working after all and that Britain and the … 52–53) in his inspiring conversational program SHRDLU.However, it was unclear how to generalize the HOLD register to handle the multiple long-range dependencies, including crossing dependencies,
03946|Applying Case-Based Reasoning (CBR) for Environmental Sustainability: Mitigating PM 2.5 Pollution in Chiang Mai, Thailand
   > suggests integrating CBR with real-time monitoring tools and exploring its application in other regions with similar challenges to further enhance its impact.Future research should focus
03947|Open-Source Artificial Intelligence Tools for Irrigation Management: A Critical Narrative Review of Capabilities, Evidence and Implementation Gaps
   > simulation and proof-of-concept scheduling. Evidence is weaker for sustained multiseason water savings, cross-site transfer, autonomous closed-loop control, smallholder usability and independent comparison with well-tuned conventional scheduling. A recurring methodological problem is that high … uncertainty handling, local calibration and human oversight. Future progress depends less on another pr
03948|Explainable Spatiotemporal Ensemble Modeling Using Knowledge Distillation to Forecast Food Security
   > and r1h_avg remaining the most influential predictors post-distillation. A reproducible pipeline incorporating spatial cross-validation, CUDA-accelerated training, and interactive XAI visualisation is introduced to enhance methodological
03949|Unsupervised and Weakly-Supervised Learning of Localized Texture Patterns of Lung Diseases on Computed Tomography
   > patterns and 6 quantitative emphysema subtypes (QES). Our discovered QES were associated independently with distinct risk of symptoms, physiological changes, exacerbations and mortality. Genome-wide association … associated with four subtypes. Then we designed a deep-learning approach, using unsupervised domain adaptation with adversarial training, to label the QES on cardiac CT scans,
03950|Cohort Profile: The Center for cArdiometabolic Risk Reduction in South Asia (CARRS)
   > aged 20 years and older. In 2014–16, CARRS-2 was established as an independent probability sample of 14 587 newly recruited individuals, using methods identical to … systems, and de-identifying stored samples. In the laboratory, samples are processed and transferred to deep freezers (–80°C) within 3 hour. The biospecimens are labelled with
03951|Smart Forest Fencing System
   > [no term] Abstract The increasing incidents of crop damage and human–wildlife conflict near agrarian and forest boundary areas highlight the need for intelligent and robotic protection systems. Traditional fencing methods often fail
03952|TerraSegNet: Bilateral Axial Attention Network for Remote Sensing Image Segmentation in Diverse Environmental Monitoring Applications
   > performance, most existing models are designed for specific tasks. They are often trained on single-source satellite imagery, which limits their adaptability. To overcome these limitations, … (Sentinel-1), and ground terrain classification on AIR-PolSAR-Seg-2.0 (Gaofen-3). All training is performed independently per dataset without cross-domain transfer learning, ensuring a fair evaluation of in-d
03953|PHOTOVOLTAICS LITERATURE SURVEY (No. 184)
   > Narasimhan KL, Arora BM, et al Analysis and mitigation of errors in external quantum efficiency measurement of solar cells embedded in solar modules. Solar Energy … 14(1): 1846. Ma CQ, Eickemeyer FT, Lee SH, et al Unveiling facet-dependent degradation and facet engineering for stable perovskite solar cells. Science 2023; 379(6628): 173–178.
03954|A Dynamic Learning Observatory Reveals the Rapid Salinization of Satkhira, Bangladesh
   > Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) model, and predictions were further improved using a Generalized Additive Model (GAM). Spatial cross-validation was applied to reduce autocorrelation bias, and bootstrap resampling was used
03955|ISAAF: an IoT security and attack prevention framework using AI-driven predictive analytics
   > and Slowite attacks. While machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL) models trained on simulated benchmarks, such as MQTTset, have shown promise, evaluation results indicate that these models achieved high accuracy in controlled environments but failed to generalize to real-world traffic. To address this limitation, MQTTEEB-D was introduced as a … instance, Decision Tree (DT) and Gated Recurren
03956|DPVOC: Dual-Prompt for Learned Variable Bitrate Omnidirectional Image Compression
   > input to the network. Considering the varying degrees of distortion redundancy across different regions of ERP patches, we introduce corresponding Dmap patches to record the
03957|Transfer learning model for coal lower heating value prediction with improved applicability to cross-sample datasets
   > [no abstract]
03958|SMART CROPPROTECTION SYSTEM
   > [no term] Farmers who cultivate land near forest regions often struggle with frequent crop damage caused by wild animals. These unexpected intrusions not only reduce yield but also affect their income and
03959|From bioadsorption to biotransformation: a hypothesis for mercury bioremediation using genetically modified microalgae
   > inorganic form can then be reduced to elemental mercury (Hg⁰) by MerA, another enzyme in the mer operon, thereby detoxifying the mercury (Hui et al., … are uncharacterized for large heterologous enzymes. Protein stability in aquatic environments presents another critical bottleneck: extracellular MerA/MerB would be exposed to proteases, oxidative stress, and
03960|Continually Evolving Time-Constant Networks Enable Proactive Control of Coagulation for Low-Cost Drinking Water Treatment
   > [no abstract]
03961|Cross-regional characterisation and prediction of reproductive phenology in Prunus cerasoides Buch. -Ham. Ex D. Don using sequential learning
   > [no abstract]
03962|Prediction of syngas yield from biomass by gasification and related application
   > rice straw utilized for biomass gasification is estimated. The syngas yield in different regions of the world is calculated based on the maximum syngas yield … valuable insights into the potential for syngas production from rice straw in different regions.
03963|Climate and Vegetation Dominate Lake Eutrophication in the Inner Mongolia–Xinjiang Plateau (2000–2024)
   > multi-decadal trophic dynamics across the IMXP using Landsat time series and temporally transferable machine-learning models and further quantify the underlying natural and anthropogenic drivers. We … divided it into a training set (n = 1076; ≤2019) and an independent test set (n = 269; 2020–2024) to evaluate temporal transferability. We utilized Google Earth Engine to generate monthly surface ref
03964|Autoencoder based approach for the mitigation of spurious correlations
   > tasks, yet their susceptibility to spurious correlations poses a significant challenge for out-of-distribution (OOD) generalization. Spurious correlations refer to erroneous associations in data that do not reflect … not robust across diverse datasets or real-world scenarios, hampering their ability to generalize beyond training data. In this paper, we propose an autoencoder-based approach to
03965|A Method for Radionuclide Dispersion Prediction Based on the TIME-LLM Model
   > [no abstract]
03966|Prediction of Radionuclide Diffusion Concentrations Based on Time-LLM Models
   > [no abstract]
03967|Deep transfer learning for spectral prediction of kiwifruit quality across cultivars and instruments
   > [no abstract]
03968|Improving fine-grained population distribution prediction by considering region-distinctive geographical factors-A case of Pearl River Delta, China
   > River Delta as a case study. Leveraging multi-source geospatial data, based on generalized geographical factors (GGF) (e.g., topography, POI density, nighttime light intensity, etc.), we … both model performance (with the average R 2 increasing by 6% under spatial cross-validation) and output (The relative error in densely populated areas can be
03969|When Less Is More: A Controlled Benchmark of Lightweight CNNs for Satellite Land-Cover Segmentation on DeepGlobe
   > that architectural optimization alone cannot optimize spectrally similar minority classes. Strong spatial generalization and crisp boundary delineation were confirmed on held-out test imagery, validating operational
03970|Spectral Input Selection and Architectural Design for Robust Multispectral Land Cover Semantic Segmentation from Sentinel-2 Imagery
   > segmentation, the combined impact of spectral input selection and network architecture on cross-regional robustness remains insufficiently explored. This study systematically investigates multispectral land cover segmentation in Serbia and evaluates its transferability to Western Balkan regions using a structured experimental framework. Methods: A comprehensive … performance is evaluated on an int
03971|Improved Strawberry Disease Classification under Class Imbalance through In-Backbone Latent Diffusion
   > [no abstract]
03972|Transfer learning methods for palaeoecology : comparing local models and global models
   > data that match testing data the most. Considering input data are not independently distributed over geographical space and therefore model evaluation is not trivial, we … Thus, we develop a scheme to give recommendations on selecting models on different regions. We recommend to use modified hierarchical clustering based models (MHCMs) and
03973|WIND ENERGY MAPPING BASED ON QUANTUM GIS, MEASURED AND PREDICTED WIND SPEED IN KATSINA STATE
   > term wind speed of Katsina was measured at 5 m elevation at different locations using hand held digital rotating cup. In order to obtain long
03974|Structural brain mutant of Drosophila melanogaster with reduced cell number in the medulla cortex and with normal optomotor yaw response (cell degener
   > [no term] KS58, one out of six known alleles of the small optic lobes (sol) gene in Drosophila melanogaster, reduces the cell number in the medulla cortex by degeneration of ganglion cells
03975|Geometry vs. Appearance: An Evaluation of Feature Modalities for Cross-Day Grape Cluster Re-Identification
   > [no abstract]
03976|Explainable Artificial Intelligence for Prediction and Interpretation of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)
   > A cutting-edge approach to disease management through high-precision wheat leaf segmentation and cross-dataset analysis,” International Journal of Engineering Systems Modelling and Simulation, vol. 16, no.
03977|Weakly-supervised Kidney Tumor Classification from CT Scans with Multi-Instance Learning and Anatomical Filtering
   > - on kidney tumor classification across one internal dataset (TUH) and two external datasets (KiTS23 and TCGA-KiRC). Our best models achieve F1 = 0.83 on … show that anatomical filtering with the Compass model is critical for the out-of-distribution generalization of embedding-based ABMIL, while instance-based FocusMIL demonstrates greater inherent robustness to distribution shift. While evaluated
03978|Precision detection and management of aphid clusters in sorghum using AI and computer vision
   > natural enemies. Although challenges remain related to field-level variability, occlusion and model transferability across environments, the use of multi-scale datasets and attention-based learning strategies shows
03979|Soil moisture retrieval at 1-km resolution making a synergistic use of Sentinel-1/2/3 data
   > instead of S2. The algorithm improvements are evaluated both over Europe and other regions of the globe, for which S1 coverage is poorer. Two sets
03980|SA: Sliding attack for synthetic speech detection with resistance to clipping and self-splicing
   > the black-box model. Therefore, it is necessary to explore how to improve transferability in different input length settings. In this paper, we take the synthetic … sliding attack. Specifically, we make each sampling point aware of gradients at different locations, which can simulate the situation where adversarial examples are input to
03981|Title: Prediction of environmental indicators in land levelling using artificial intelligence techniques
   > investigated. The study was consisted of 90 samples were collected from 3 different regions. The grid size was set 20 m in 20 m (20*20)
03982|FDL-Net: Joint Frequency-Domain Decoupling and Macroscopic Large-Kernel Perception Network for UAV-Based Photovoltaic Panel Stain Detection
   > [no abstract]
03983|Computational modeling of light processing in the habenula and dorsal raphe based on laser ablation of functionally-defined cells
   > which can be verified via future experiments. CONCLUSION: Lesioning specific cells in different regions of habenula led to qualitatively different responses to light in the
03984|Predictive Species Distribution Models of Three Range-Expanding Mammal Species in Japan
   > [no term] Three mammal species, namely sika deer (Cervus nippon), wild boar (Sus scrofa), and Japanese monkey (Macaca fuscata), have been rapidly expanding their distribution ranges in the last 50 years, and
03985|Integrating Phenological Insights for Optimised GEDI-Based Savanna Vegetation Structure Modelling
   > [no abstract]
03986|Innovative approaches to the management of recurrent atrial fibrillation, aortic dilation, and Brugada syndrome
   > Based on available data, current guidelines recommend alcohol abstinence or reduction to decrease AF symptoms, burden, and progression, and do not indicate the need for … characteristics, electrocardiogram (ECG) findings, laboratory values, biomarker levels, and imaging studies. In another State of the Review article entitled ‘Artificial intelligence in cardiovascular medicine: clinical
03987|Analysis and Comparative Prediction of Daily ET₀ Using FAO Penman-Monteith Integrated with LSTM and BiLSTM Models in Pinrang Regency
   > and processed using Min-Max normalization, a 30-day sliding window scheme, and chronological data partitioning. Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) and Bidirectional LSTM (BiLSTM) models were trained
03988|Interpretable Attribution of Sentinel-1/2 and Environmental Covariates for Compositionally Closed Soil Mapping and Uncertainty Quantification
   > croplands in the central Shandong mountain-hilly region of China, using an elevation-stratified spatial cross-validation. Validations achieved R2 values of 0.72, 0.61, and 0.59 for sand, … 0.34. Critically, the MCS error propagation strategy effectively compensated for the probability distribution shift introduced by non-linear ILR back-transformation. This ensured that all predicted compositions
03989|Sentiment Analysis on Movie Reviews: A Deep Dive into Modern Techniques and Open Challenges
   > modeling paradigms address domain-specific issues such as sarcasm, negation, contextual ambiguity, and domain shift, which remain open problems in existing literature. Unlike earlier reviews that … that highlights both established solutions and unresolved challenges toward building more accurate, generalizable, and explainable sentiment analysis systems for movie review data.
03990|Combining and Processing Airborne Laser Scanning and Crowdsourced Terrestrial Images for Bilberry High-Yield Maps
   > [no term] Abstract. Forests provide essential ecosystem services beyond timber, yet locating high-yield areas for non-wood forest products such as bilberries (Vaccinium myrtillus) remains a challenge for both recreational and commercial pickers.
03991|Advancing Image-Based Grapevine Variety Classification with a New Benchmark and Evaluation of Masked Autoencoders
   > datasets from other domains, e.g., ImageNet1K (IN1K), which can lead to performance degradation due to domain shift and supervision collapse. In this context, self-supervised learning (SSL) methods can be a good tool to avoid this performance degradation, since they can learn directly from data, without external labels. This study presents an evaluation of Masked Autoencoders (MAEs) for identifyin
03992|PRUE: A Practical Recipe for Field Boundary Segmentation at Scale
   > loss functions, and targeted data augmentations to enhance performance and robustness under real-world conditions. Our model achieves a 76\% IoU and 47\% object-F1 on FTW,
03993|Canalization of neural dynamics by δ-protocadherins in the developing zebrafish optic tectum
   > [no term] Brain dynamics are constrained by the underlying topology of neuronal networks. How genes collaborate to organize these neural networks during development remains an enduring mystery. In humans, large numbers of
03994|Transformer-Based Visual Perception Models for Autonomous Robots
   > significantly improved perception accuracy, they often struggle to capture long-range dependencies and generalize to complex or unseen environments. Recent advances in Transformer-based vision models address these limitations by employing
03995|Molecular and Genetic Testing in Thrombosis and Hemostasis
   > aimed to improve sequence output and fidelity. This article is followed by another core paper by Webster and Hampshire[ 6 ] that provides a seamless
03996|Attention-Guided Discriminative Region Localization for Bone Age Assessment.
   > then crop these informative local regions from the original image and aggregate different regions for bone age regression. Extensive comparison experiments are conducted on the
03997|Species distribution models explaining human-wildlife conflicts in Taita Taveta County, Kenya
   > 2015. Temporal distribution of HWCs is also examined through analysis made with another dataset obtained from Kenya Wildlife Service including reported HWCs between 1990–2016. The … study uses biomod2 package in R, which includes 10 state-of-the-art modelling techniques: Generalized linear models (GLM), Generalized Additive Models (GAM), Generalized Boosted Models (GAM), Random Forest (RF), MaxEnt
03998|A System-Level Review of Bio-Inspired Technologies for Next-Generation UAVs: From Aerodynamics to Energy Systems
   > control, ionic energy storage, and energy harvesting. Its principal contribution is a cross-domain synergy analysis identifying five performance couplings and one structural enabling architecture through
03999|AI Based Mango Leaf Disease Detection and Management System
   > and Hindi) which makes the user interface Farmer Friendly; increase usability in different regions, this will contribute for early diagnosis improved crop management.
04000|Region-wise Explainability for Trustworthy Face Spoofing Detection using Gradient-weighted Class Activation Mapping and Facial Landmarks
   > the full face yields the highest prediction confidence of 0.956 among the other regions. Further, a confidence drop analysis is performed by masking the most
04001|Implication of 14-3-3ζ-BDNF pathway in long-lasting memory enhancement and the rescue from memory deficits
   > which was designed to inhibit the enzyme acetylcholinesterase, which is responsible for degrading acetylcholine. These agents and other memory enhancers that have been studied to … body neurons. Mutant Drosophila that lacked the leonardo gene showed a significant decrease in the capacity for olfactory memory but not for olfactory sensory (Broadie et al., 1997). Similarly, mice lacking the 14-3-3ζ 
04002|AIDOVECL: AI-generated Dataset of Outpainted Vehicles for Eye-level Classification and Localization
   > seed images, which are then outpainted onto larger canvases to simulate varied real-world conditions. The outpainted images include detailed annotations, providing high-quality ground truth data.
04003|DOMAIN ADAPTIVE VERMICOMPOST QUALITY PREDICTION THROUGH CALIBRATED MULTI-MODAL LEARNING AND INTERNET OF THINGS
   > reliable across feedstocks, and most ML studies involve poor datasets with poor cross-site generalization. There is a gap for a low-cost, multi-modal, and transferable predictor that works in actual plants. To overcome such a gap, in … reveal drivers (e.g., humification signal). Methodological core processes include cross-feedstock, data acquisition, cross-season, signal cleaning, and feature lear
04004|Pushing the Boundaries of Sustainability: Advances in Hyperspectral Remote Sensing for Ecosystem and Natural Resource Management
   > Detection and Ranging), SAR (Synthetic Aperture Radar), and thermal features aimed at decreasing the level of ambiguity and enhancing operational resilience. Applications based on decision … disturbance, sustainable agricultural production, inland water quality and coastal water quality, land degradation and soil status, and environmental impact assessment. Inhibiting factors to operational adopti
04005|Crowdsourcing for the Identification and Conservation of the Floral Diversity of Nepal: A Technological Perspective
   > [no term] Nepal is rich in biodiversity in terms of both flora and fauna. While significant effort has been given to the conservation of wild animals, rare or otherwise, same cannot be
04006|A Bi-LSTM Prediction Method for Apple First Flowering Date Based on Enhanced Time-Series Temperature Features
   > and the optimal configuration was selected based on validation performance. Finally, a cross-year validation strategy was adopted to evaluate model generalization ability: Data from 2019 to 2021 were used as the modeling dataset … validation), while the observed first flowering date in 2022 served as an independent test dataset. The predictive performance of all models was evaluated using three
04007|Robust machine-learned algorithms for efficient grid operation
   > model of a combined cycle cogeneration plant, where it exhibits robustness to distribution shift while enabling improved efficiency as renewables penetration increases.
04008|Camera-Based Semantic Image Segmentation for Autonomous Vehicle
   > — Existing models still struggle with cross-domain adaptability and generalisation, despite notable advancements in deep learning for image and video segmentation. Segmenting … SAM2's use in static image and video segmentation, highlighting the difficulties of cross-domain adaptability and its performance in specialised fields like medical imaging. We examined
04009|Artificial Intelligence in Scalable Materials Synthesis and Manufacturing
   > the review examines the principal failure modes that constrain practical deployment, including out-of-distribution generalization, incomplete and non-transferable literature-derived data, simulator-to-plant mismatch, uncertainty miscalibration, and the continued need for expert
04010|Rapid evaporative ionisation mass spectrometry (REIMS): A potential and rapid tool for the identification of insecticide resistance in mosquito larvae
   > [no term] Abstract Insecticide resistance is a significant challenge facing the successful control of mosquito vectors globally. Bioassays are currently the only method for phenotyping resistance. They require large numbers of mosquitoes
04011|Hierarchical Vision–Language Fusion with Structural Constraint Reasoning for Robust Multi-Jurisdiction License Plate Recognition
   > environments requires simultaneously addressing two fundamental challenges: reliable localization of small and degraded license plates and accurate decoding of visually ambiguous character sequences. This paper … normalization, dual-channel recognition, and structured post-correction to improve recognition robustness under diverse real-world conditions. A systematic ablation study involving five c
04012|Integrating Multi-Temporal Optical and SAR Imagery for Fractional Shrub and Tree Cover Estimation
   > [no abstract]
04013|Data coherence over data volume drives generalisable genome-based prediction of microbial carbon utilisation
   > that remains difficult to predict from genomes despite well-characterised pathways. Machine-learning models generalise poorly across datasets, a failure usually attributed to training-set size and taxonomic … over 8000 literature-curated BacDive genomes to the training set did not improve cross-dataset performance more than the smaller concordant set, suggesting coherence matters more than
04014|Streamflow Prediction Using Long Shot-Term Memory Models for Optimized Irrigation Management
   > [no abstract]
04015|Biologists Discovering the Value of Artificial Intelligence
   > may not recognize as valid and that might, therefore, skew the data. Another challenge, he says, is that “AI is not IT.” Rather than plugging … differences in pore size, distribution, and morphology. Then it could focus on another aspect of interest.” The changes were then modeled before the final iterations
04016|Integrating Vegetation Indices and Texture Features From UAS Imagery to Improve Yield Prediction and Growth Analysis of Spinach ( Spinacia oleracea L.
   > models have been trained and validated within a single trial, leaving their generalizability across growing seasons largely untested; although UAS‐based growth analysis has been applied … ability, as evaluated through a cross‐year validation, in which the model was trained on data from 1 year and tested on unseen data from a different year. In addition, the UAS feature was further leveraged to per
04017|How do multi-factor interactions shape the seasonal dynamics of forest fires across the China–North Korea–Russia transboundary region?
   > rather than a fixed annual driver hierarchy, while also demonstrating that relationships transferable across years may not transfer equally well across geographic areas.
04018|Exploiting predictive metabolomics of pearl millet phenotypic traits using untargeted profiling across a Brazilian germplasm panel
   > UHPLC-LTQ-Orbitrap-HRMS. Phenotypic data were sourced from standardised evaluations conducted by Embrapa across different years and field trials within the Sete Lagoas experimental station (Minas Gerais, Brazil). Generalised linear modelling with penalisation (GLM) and Random Forest was applied to explore
04019|On the relevance of patch-based extraction methods for monocular depth estimation
   > research direction focuses on smaller image patches, as depth information varies across different regions of an image. This approach reduces model complexity and improves performance
04020|Flood-Level Estimation Using Aerial Imagery
   > offer a practical and effective framework for UAV-based flood-scene analysis under diverse real-world conditions.
04021|Tale of mitochondria and mitochondria-associated ER membrane in patient-derived neuronal models of Wolfram syndrome
   > gene that encodes a MAM-resident protein called wolframin (WFS1). Likewise, mutations in another MAM-associated protein, CISD2, cause Wolfram syndrome type 2 (Delprat et al., 2018). … in rat cortical neurons with Wfs1 knockdown (Cagalinec et al., 2016), and decreased mitochondrial respiration in patient fibroblasts (Angebault et al., 2018). Concomitant with mitochondrial
04022|A configurable five-step workflow for high-throughput hyperspectral image analysis and vegetation index mapping
   > [no term] This workflow describes a structured approach for hyperspectral image analysis of push-broom camera data acquired under laboratory and field conditions. The workflow comprises five sequential steps: (1) ROI extraction from
04023|CAFOSat: A Strongly Annotated Dataset for Infrastructure-Aware CAFO Mapping Using High-Resolution Imagery
   > value of refined annotations and curated negative samples for CAFO classification and generalization. In addition, we introduce a synthetic augmentation pipeline that generates infrastructure-aware variations to increase training diversity and improve robustness under distribution shifts. CAFOSat provides a large-scale benchmark for advancing infrastructure-aware agricultural monitoring and
04024|GIS-Based Assessment of Grassland Dynamics and Sustainable Pasture Planning in South and Nabatieh Governorates, Lebanon (2000–2024)
   > classification. Historical Landsat surface reflectance products were processed using standardized preprocessing procedures, cross-sensor harmonization, and supervised classification. Classification accuracy was assessed using independent validation samples, yielding overall accuracy values ranging from 91.8% to 98.6% and
04025|Pasture Biomass Monitoring in Queensland Rangelands with UAV and Satellite Cascades
   > pasture mask (overall accuracy 98.6 %) to suppress mixed-pixel noise. Under a leave-one-site-out (LOSO) cross-validation protocol on twenty site-date aggregates across nine sites, spectral-only models … greenness-only growth features. Three additional covariate classes – BARRA-R2 reanalysis climate, three independent fractional-cover products, and Sentinel-1 C-band SAR backscatter – were tested an
04026|Industrial Large Models for Safety and Quality Control in the Chemical Process Industry
   > chemical process industry. It explains the main architectural elements of ILMs, including domain adaptation, retrieval-augmented generation, tool use, physics-based validation, and local deployment. It then
04027|Criptech and the Art of Access: Introduction to Special Issue
   > as a tactile object—depending on what people need” [21]. In Andy Slater’s Unseen Sound, an immersive virtual environment is navigable only by sound, or in
04028|Mobile Internet Technologies, Ecological Momentary Assessment, and Intervention—Poison and Remedy for New Online Problematic Behaviors in ICD-11
   > portable devices and through a multitude of entertaining applications have created a new environment in which gratifying behavior can be easily engaged in and repeated, … further research on their accurate conceptualization and development of effective treatments. Here, another significant question emerges: how do we examine the effectiveness of the treatment?
04029|Photovoltaic power forecasting: A comprehensive review and taxonomy of forecasting methods
   > uncertainty quantification. Finally, we identify open challenges limiting robust deployment — non-stationarity, cross-site/climate generalization, probabilistic calibration, and explainability — and highlight emerging trends such as self-supervised
04030|Comparative Assessment of Multimodal Earth Observation Data for Soil Moisture Estimation
   > spanning diverse vegetated areas, we compare modality combinations with temporal parameterizations, using spatial cross-validation, to ensure geographic generalization. We also evaluate whether foundation model embeddings from IBM-NASA's Prithvi model improve
04031|Expansion of Spartina alterniflora at its northernmost distribution limit in China and its impacts on wetland carbon and nitrogen
   > [no abstract]
04032|Habitat suitability modeling reveals conservation gaps for endemic canga flora in Brazil’s Iron Quadrangle
   > model habitat suitability using Bioclim, MaxEnt, Random Forest, Support Vector Machine, and Generalized Linear Models (GLM). To avoid overfitting models, we used a spatial cross-validation and compared it with a random cross-validation. The compiled database revealed … the evaluated algorithms, GLM achieved low susceptibility to spatial overfitting and better generalization ability, with the highe
04033|Trade-off between yield and quality driven by artificial domestication in Gleditsia sinensis: Phenotypic and functional component variation in a commo
   > [no term] Gleditsia sinensis is an ecological and economic native tree species, yet previous origin-based studies suffer from genotype-by-environment (G×E) interactions, lacking systematic comparisons of morphology-metabolism associations between cultivated and wild types
04034|Modelling the fate of chemicals of emerging concern in wastewater treatment: From mechanistic models to hybrid data driven approaches
   > pose major challenges for wastewater treatment plants because they are difficult to biodegrade, persist in the environment, and occur at trace concentrations. This review evaluates … However, these models remain limited by their reliance on large datasets, reduced transferability across treatment systems, and the interpretability challenges associated with "black box" predictions.
04035|Sugar-Beet Stress Detection using Satellite Image Time Series
   > The resulting stress detection system can be directly applied to data from different years, offering a practical and accessible tool for stress detection in sugar-beets.
04036|GIS Analysis Model Integration and Service Composition Prospects
   > emphasizing their critical roles in enhancing spatial analysis accuracy, decision-making efficiency, and cross-domain interoperability. Model ensemble techniques, rooted in machine learning and data mining, address
04037|Scalable Computational Phenomics of Nuclear Morphology
   > minimum, late-life re-acceleration, and cell-specific changes in trajectory magnitude and direction. Source-free domain adaptation enabled preliminary transfer of age-associated predictions to an independent hospital cohort. NucXplore thus unifies interpretable representation, high-performance computing, and dynamical modeling
04038|State-Dependent Nonlinearity in Drought Propagation: Unraveling the Threshold Proximity Mechanism under Climate Modes
   > [no abstract]
04039|Comparative Transcriptomics of Floral Transition in Arabidopsis thalianaand Ortholog Prediction in Salvia hispanica
   > [no abstract]
04040|Mutual Validation: A Cognitive Interaction Model for Deep Human-AI Collaboration
   > AI's logic exceeds its evidentiary basis through rigorous questioning. Derived from a cross-domain extension of the "Fruit of the Poisonous Tree" doctrine, this concept emphasizes the purity of the inferential source. Mutual Validation is characterized as the externalized manifestation of Recursive Thinking, utilizing AI as an external mirror to accelerate cognitive iteration and the pursuit of tr
04041|Photovoltaics literature survey (No. 174)
   > et al. Multiscale characterization of photovoltaic modules-case studies of contact and interconnect degradation. IEEE Journal of Photovoltaics 2022; 12( 1): 62– 72. Khan, IS, Morse, … 232: 84– 91. Muzzillo, CP, Terwilliger, K, Hacke, P, et al. Potential-induced degradation of Cu (In,Ga)Se2 can occur by shunting the front i-ZnO and by
04042|Biologically Anchored Digital Biomarkers and Artificial Intelligence for Precision Autism Medicine
   > prediction. We also discuss implementation considerations for clinical translation, including validation, calibration, dataset shift monitoring, fairness auditing, and clinician-in-the-loop governance. Biologically integrated digital biomarker systems
04043|Contribution of Bacterial Blight, Anthracnose, and Angular Leaf Spot Diseases To the Grain Yield of Common Bean Genotypes
   > [no abstract]
04044|A Mini-Review on Pedo-transfer Functions for Soil Bulk Density Estimation: Advances, Challenges, and Future Directions
   > environmental influences, are analyzed. The review also highlights the challenges of model transferability across regions, trade-offs between model complexity and accuracy, and gaps in data
04045|Deep Visual Representation Structuring for Terrain Semantics via Efficient Feature Abstraction Mechanisms
   > improves the autonomy and performance of outdoor robotic systems operating in diverse real-world conditions.
04046|HAMscope: a snapshot Hyperspectral Autofluorescence Miniscope for real-time molecular imaging
   > neural activity mapping, metabolic profiling, and histopathology. We show that the system generalizes to out-of-distribution tissue types and supports direct molecular mapping without the need for spectral
04047|Review on different band selection approaches for classification of hyperspectral images
   > causes spectral redundancy, expense of computation and Hughes phenomenon, where classification performance decreases as the number of features increases greatly relative to the available training … The research needs to focus its future efforts on interpretable, real-time and cross-domain adaptive band selection frameworks to enable hyperspectral imaging to be deployed to
04048|Quality Identification of Kale Cultivated under Different Light Treatments by Hyperspectral Imaging Technology
   > of model accuracy were also investigated when the reflectance spectra extracted from different regions of interest (ROIs) such as whole leaf, mesophyll and leaf veins
04049|DFMA-DETR: a pomegranate maturity detection algorithm based on dual-domain feature modulation and enhanced attention
   > respectively over the baseline RT-DETR model, while maintaining relatively low model complexity. Cross-dataset validation further confirms the superior generalization performance of the proposed approach. This research provides an effective solution for
04050|Including biotic factors does not improve species distribution models across three trophic levels
   > our SDMs, we constructed them using an ensemble of three predictive algorithms: generalized linear model, maximum entropy, and random forest. We also applied Area Under … species distribution. However, the direction of species responses whether an increase or decrease in likelihood of occurrence may vary depending on the factors included in
04051|Evaluating the Effect of Emerging Technologies on Operational Efficiency in Chinese Enterprises Based on the Auto-Dml Method
   > [no abstract]
04052|Quantifying Spatiotemporal Dynamics and Zoning Management of Plastic Greenhouse Land Use Intensity: A Case Study in Weifang, China
   > to binary maps using a fixed threshold (T = 0.45) to improve cross-year comparability. Pixel-wise annual sequences were then summarized into four process classes: stable, … process composition were further combined to produce an exploratory rule-based zoning interpretation. Independent year-specific validation showed overall accuracies of 0.969–0.983 and Kappa values of 0.740–0.841.
04053|A normative reference for large-scale human brain dynamics across the lifespan
   > brain-state configurations that are reproducible across scanners and acquisition paradigms and that generalize to previously unseen cohorts. Anchoring these dynamic states to normative lifespan models enables the quantification … dynamics that are not captured by static neuroimaging measures. Robust transfer to independent cohorts and longitudinal analyses demonstrate that normative brain dynamics
04054|GLF6mA: A Novel Model for N6-Methyladenine DNA Methylation Identification With Gene Expression Data
   > [no abstract]
04055|Dynamic Assessment of Water Ecosystem Service Value in the North China Plain and Study of Its Multidimensional Driving Mechanisms
   > 2002 to 2022. Addressing the critical challenges of water scarcity and ecological degradation in this densely populated and agriculturally intensive region, the research develops an … temporal trends. The supply structure is dominated by soil moisture (80–90%), while externally transferred water, despite increasing rapidly, exhibits high interannual variability. SHAP analysis identifies vegetation
04056|Advances in Natural Language Processing for Radiology: State-of-the-Art Techniques, Applications, and Open Challenges
   > We also analyze key barriers to clinical adoption, including limited annotated data, domain generalization gaps across institutions, ethical and fairness concerns, and the need for
04057|Computer aided analysis of prostate histopathology images
   > applicable to a new domain, directly. Here we propose to adopt unsupervised domain adaptation to transfer the discriminative knowledge obtained from the source domain to the target domain without requiring labeling of images at the target domain. The adaptation is achieved through adversarial training to find an invariant feature space along with the proposed Siamese architecture on the target dom
04058|Interpretable SHAP-Based Data-Driven Framework for Optimizing Treatment Performance Through Turbidity Dynamics Modelling
   > calcium (Ca) was preprocessed through rigorous screening, normalization, distributional evaluation, and stratified data partitioning. Model development involved the systematic tuning of structural and kernel-based hyperparameters, … Machine (SVM-G1/G2). Across all configurations, the BT-G1 model delivered the strongest predictive generalization (testing RMSE = 0.0671, MAE = 0.0389), outperforming 
04059|WorldView-3 Super-resolution Training Dataset Construction Using the MTF-GLP Method
   > geometric distortions between the panchromatic and multispectral images, and the modulation transfer function-generalized Laplacian pyramid algorithm was applied to produce HR images with improved spatial resolution while preserving spectral fidelity. LR images were synthesized through sensor-specific degradation modeling, resulting in a total of 14,776 HR-LR patch pairs. The constructed … detail 
04060|Seed Quality from a New Perspective: A Review on Artificial Intelligence and Multispectral Imaging with VideometerLab
   > model performance depends strongly on label quality, lot-wise validation, and robustness to domain shift caused by cultivar, season, moisture, and instrument variability. Practical deployment pathways
04061|Physics-guided thermal infrared and multispectral fusion for Land surface temperature monitoring
   > therefore focused on physically consistent LST reconstruction under night-time, partially cloudy, and cross-sensor acquisition conditions, rather than general environmental risk mapping.
04062|Aquaculture Congress 2020: Prediction of environmental indicators in land leveling using artificial intelligence techniques- Isham Alzoub- University 
   > investigated. The study was consisted of 90 samples were collected from 3 different regions. The grid size was set 20 m in 20 m (20*20)
04063|DPV-VPP: A Dual-Layer Video Privacy Protection Model Design Combining Differential Privacy and Variational Autoencoder-Based Face Replacement
   > against attacks. In simulated platform attack tests, the protection success rates against cross-site scripting injection and forged request attacks were 99.2% and 98.9%, respectively. In
04064|Geographical Authentication of Aquilaria sinensis Using Integrated C and O Stable Isotope Analysis Coupled with Chemometric Profiling
   > established, achieving a maximum accuracy of 85.7% for distinguishing Aquilaria sinensis from different regions, and 88.1% for discrimination at the provincial level. These results demonstrate
04065|Space-time modelling of soil dynamics across Australian grain belt regions from 40 years legacy data
   > [no abstract]
04066|Embedded Low Power Blockchain Traceability Solution for University Classroom Attendance
   > for secure data storage. Evaluating the resulting model on the Labeled Faces in the Wild (LFW) benchmark yields an impressive accuracy rate of 0.9938 with
04067|Unveiling the potential geographic range of Lepidium meyenii (Maca) and its climate-driven shifts in a changing climate
   > Global warming has induced pronounced phenological shifts and community degradation in alpine herbaceous plants. However, their spatiotemporal distributions, future responses to climate … study period, whereas climate change has reshaped the potential suitability patterns in other regions. From the Last Glacial Maximum to the present, the potential suitable
04068|Unusual Suspects: “Allies in the Park, Are Closer Than They Appear”
   > [no term] One season, 1039 hours, as a Park Ranger at Mesa Verde National Park. Interps we are called, observing, telling stories, being stewards of the past, present and future of wildness.
04069|Variation in VOCs, phenolics, flavonoids and antioxidant activity among natural populations of Centaurea kosaninii in Kosovo
   > [no abstract]
04070|Artificial Intelligence in Cardiac Amyloidosis: A State-of-the-Art Review
   > disease phenotyping, prognostication, and longitudinal treatment monitoring. However, important challenges remain, including dataset shift, heterogeneity in diagnostic reference standards, spectrum bias, and the need for
04071|Genomic and Multi-Omics Approaches to Diabetes Subtyping and Artificial Intelligence-Driven Prediction for Precision Medicine
   > is limited by information loss due to categorization, static classification, and poor transferability across ethnicities. Genome-wide association studies have identified more than 1,200 independent risk signals and revealed genetically driven pathophysiological clusters enriched in cell-type-specific regulatory … and machine learning methods, including ensemble models, deep survival analysis, foun
04072|A Novel Holistic Framework for Evaluation of Landslide Susceptibility in the Hengduan Mountains, the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau
   > [no abstract]
04073|Regional disparity in the improvement of cultivated land quality in China since the 1980s
   > low-quality cultivated land expanded in Northern and Western China, indicating ongoing land degradation in these ecologically vulnerable zones. The model interpretability analysis shows the relative … insights for designing effective land management strategies both in China and for other regions worldwide.
04074|Toward Robust RF Drone Detection at Energy Facilities: A Synthetic Industrial-EMI Benchmark and Noise-Augmented Training Method
   > −10 to + 20 dB sweep; the gains are stable across five independent grouped splits. Augmentation adds no inference-time cost. A leave-one-noise-out analysis shows the gains transfer fully to unseen impulsive interference and partially to broadband noise, but not to structurally distinct
04075|From Offline Accuracy to Deployed Performance: A Four-Phase Evaluation of an Edge-Hosted Wearable Stress-Monitoring Platform
   > the serving layer as the current concurrency bottleneck. Phase 2 showed graceful degradation under progressive sensor loss on 475 real WESAD stress windows, with stress … seven reliable binary controls, while transparently exposing the checkpoint’s phenotype-separation boundary on out-of-distribution profiles. Across all conditions directly tested, the deployed software preserved the dominant
04076|A simple and accurate method for inferring missing ploidy information from sequence data
   > [no term] Abstract Polyploidy can be a critical factor for explaining plant trait variation, niche diversification, or speciation. However, inferring ploidy from silica-dried or historical samples using chromosome counts or flow cytometry
04077|Integrated genomic and structural dissection of melanism in Indian leopard (Panthera pardus fusca)
   > [no term] BACKGROUND: Melanism in wild felids represents an intriguing evolutionary trait, potentially advantageous under specific ecological conditions, but the genetic basis of this phenotype remains unclear in many populations. Here, we
04078|Phenotypic features outperform raw geolocation for community level cognitive difficulty prediction using BRFSS SMART data
   > 0.916; paired Wilcoxon $$p=0.70$$ ). Under spatial cross validation, used to test generalization to entirely unseen geographic regions, text+phenotype and text+geo+phenotype remain statistically indistinguishable (0.873 vs. 0.873; $$p=0.63$$
04079|Empowering YOLO for Real-Time Flower Grading on Edge Devices via Structural Optimization and Feature Refinement
   > [no abstract]
04080|Immunoproteomic insights into inflammatory diseases of the critically endangered black rhinoceros (Diceros bicornis)
   > Black rhinoceros are critically endangered due to poaching in the wild (in situ). Globally, fewer than 200 animals are maintained as
04081|PAT (Periderm Assessment Toolkit): A Quantitative and Large-Scale Screening Method for Periderm Measurements
   > [no term] The periderm is a vital protective tissue found in the roots, stems, and woody elements of diverse plant species. It plays an important function in these plants by assuming the
04082|Using GeoAI and Machine Leaning Tools for Consistent High-Resolution Land Cover Mapping Based on Time-Series NAIP Imagery
   > GeoAI/Machine Learning (ML) tools based on time-series NAIP imagery, and (2) address cross-year sensor characteristic shifts without relying on historical training samples. Methods: We designed
04083|High-resolution meteorological data and MCDM integration for RoRHPP site selection: A performance-based validation using XGBoost
   > run-of-river hydroelectric power plants (RoRHPP) production potential by evaluating meteorological data from different locations with the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP), T echnique for O rder
04084|Application of PTR-MS to the Analysis of Volatile Organic Compounds from Cranberries as a Useful Tool for Sustainable Development
   > and plantations. Additionally, machine learning was used to classify cranberries collected from different sites. The classification accuracy of the MLP model for a limited number
04085|A Survey on Wildlife Detection with Audio Deterrence
   > [no term] Human–wildlife conflict has become a serious concern in village areas and rural regions due to increasing habitat disturbance and expansion of human settlements near forest boundaries. This work proposes an
04086|High-resolution climate reconstruction from historical Chinese weather records using optimized natural language processing
   > this lexicon effectively captures the linguistic diversity associated with weather events across different regions and intensity levels. Building on this lexicon, we propose a multi-dimensional
04087|Towards a robust, impact-based, predictive drought metric
   > having predictive capacity. As a proof-of-concept case, the RF drought indicator was trained on Texan climate data and droughts, and validated in all Texas ecoregions. … approach can be easily implemented to develop a RF drought indicator for new regions if adequate information on historical droughts is available.
04088|Interaction Effects Do Not Consistently Improve the Transferability of Species Distribution Models
   > one of the reasons why species distribution models (SDMs) often have low transferability. Context dependence may arise due to frequent and widespread interactive effects of … occurrence. Thus, accounting for interactions in SDMs could in principle improve their transferability. Alternatively, incorporating driver interactions may lead to overfitting issues and reduce model transferability. We syst
04089|Defining ai applications in clinical routine
   > proven to be difficult. Issues include science of deep learning related to dataset shift, accidental fitting of confounders, unintended discriminatory bias, and generalization to new populations, logistical difficulties in implementation, sociocultural changes and patient perception,
04090|Foundation Artificial Intelligence Models in Animal Biotechnology: From Protein Structure Prediction to Genomic Language Models and Autonomous Laborat
   > Foundation artificial intelligence models — large neural networks pre- trained on vast, diverse biological datasets that can be fine- tuned or prompted
04091|New methodologies and improved models in the estimation of solar irradiation
   > benchmarked based on the errors and robustness and their capacity of spatial generalization was also evaluated. From this point, more complex techniques such as support … being useful for future replications and applications of the proposed methods in different regions and was one the most relevant final products of this thesis.
04092|Estimating SPAD of tea leaf using UAV multispectral remote sensing based on stacking ensemble learning
   > tea tree growth. This study proposes and validates a more robust and generalized SPAD inversion modelling framework, which solves the problem of poor cross‑year stability
04093|Automated identification of ataxia and convulsions in hyperexcitable Shudderer mutants of the Drosophila sodium channel gene paralytic
   > [no term] Abstract Drosophila carrying the Shudderer ( Shu ) allele of the voltage-gated Na + gene paralytic display spontaneous convulsions and immobilization phenotypes that are exacerbated by high temperature. To automate
04094|Land Use Land Cover Change Prediction of Tansen Municipality Using Multi-Layer Perceptron-Markov Chain (MLP-MC) Model
   > Earth Engine (GEE) was used for the supervised image classification for three different years, i.e., 2003, 2013 and 2023. Land Change Modeler (LCM) of TerrSet … predicted using MLP-MC method. Overall, from 2003 to 2023, forest area continuously decreased, losing a total of 952.38 ha, while agricultural land, barren land and
04095|YOLOv11-RAH: A recurrent attention-enhanced edge intelligence network for UAV-based power transmission line insulator inspection
   > PTL-AI Furnas and CPLID, and the private UAV dataset AIDD, underscoring its transferability across data sources. These findings suggest that iterative attention combined with targeted
04096|Cyclegan-Enhanced Site Identification and Rendering for Landscape Gardening
   > (GAN) for landscape plan site identification and image rendering. The model extracts different site types from planograms and generates renderings from planograms to color texture
04097|Distributed ML for Smart Grid Management: Real-Time Demand Prediction and Renewable Integration
   > such as predictive maintenance, dynamic pricing optimization, virtual power plant orchestration, and cross-domain integration promise to further enhance grid efficiency, reliability, and resilience. The integration
04098|Spatial Leakage in Classifying NASA FIRMS Thermal Anomalies as Wildfire Incidents: A Leakage-Controlled Evaluation of Radiometric, Temporal, and Spati
   > the three coordinate features within the full-feature model; removing coordinates improves spatial-block generalization from F1 = 0.627 to 0.818, demonstrating that raw coordinates drive memorization of where 2024 fires occurred rather than transferable discrimination. We further show that spatiotemporal clustering must be causal: a model … causal clustering with no raw coordinates is the most rob
04099|Dynamic Soil Health Monitoring: Early Warning Thresholds of Pollution and Structural Failure Based on Data
   > such as statistical modeling, machine learning, and sensor fusion, for predicting soil degradation, contaminant accumulation, and structural instability. The main issues, including the heterogeneity of
04100|Early Prediction of Parkinson’s Disease Progression by Integrating Research Cohort and Real-World Data Using Knowledge-Anchored Graph Learning
   > knowledge graph-anchored architecture. This design enables predictive modeling under modality missingness and cross-dataset population heterogeneity. On the research cohort data combining PPMI and PDBP, MedStitcher
04101|Development of a Multi-Trait Polygenic Score for Intrinsic Capacity
   > strength, fat-free mass, diastolic blood pressure, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), acknowledging cross-domain relevance, and that predictors from all five IC domains were represented. The
04102|A parallel evaluation framework integrating a modified SWAP model and AutoML for simulating soil salinity under mulched drip irrigation
   > irrigation. Model accuracy was evaluated under on three scenarios: temporal extrapolation, spatial generalization, and vertical reconstruction. The modified SWAP model reduced the RMSE by 0.14 … the time-lag effect of deep salt transport. In contrast, in the spatial generalization scenario, H2O AutoML reduced the NRMSE across the 0–80 cm soil layer
04103|Expansion of Spartina Alterniflora in the Northernmost of China and its Impacts to Carbon and Nitrogen of Wetland
   > [no abstract]
04104|A Near Standard Soil Spectral Library: The Cornerstone of Hyperspectral Remote Sensing for Estimating Soil Heavy Metal Concentrations
   > [no abstract]
04105|Artificial intelligence for perioperative precision in surgical oncology
   > and adaptive adjuvant therapy. Critical barriers include limited interpretability, unstable performance under distribution shift, and insufficient prospective evidence. Current evidence supports biologically informed AI as
04106|Exploring Urban Rewilding Opportunity Spaces Through Identification, Deconstruction and Conservation: A Case Study of the Direct Administration Zone o
   > [no term] Objective Urbanization has caused significant habitat loss, threatening biodiversity and socio-ecological sustainability. Urban rewilding is increasingly seen as key to restoring natural processes and fostering self-sustaining urban ecosystems by reducing
04107|A Spectral Index for Monitoring Regional Soil Organic Carbon in Black Soil Region, Northeast China
   > [no abstract]
04108|SAVH: A Cloud-Based Methodology for ANPR Monitoring with License Plate Legibility Assessment Using YOLOv8n–CLS
   > application programming interface (API) managed by Amazon API Gateway. The model was trained on a relabeled dataset derived from the public LPLCv2 collection, split into training, validation, and test subsets. Evaluation on 720 independent images from the test set achieved 97.78% overall accuracy, with 97.75% macro precision, 97.82% macro recall, 97.78% macro F1-score, and an AUC of 0.9981. Extern
04109|Research on multi-domain feature synergistic fusion model for ultrasonic echoes inspired by cognition
   > [no abstract]
04110|A comprehensive survey on connectivity for IoT sensor networks
   > [no term] Recent demand for Internet of things (IoT) based sensing devices has increased in many significant areas, such as greenhouse monitoring, remote patient monitoring, military applications, wild-life tracking and habitat monitoring,
04111|Revealing drivers of nitrous oxide (N2O) fluxes in a thawing sub-Arctic permafrost peatland
   > [no term] Nitrous oxide (N₂O) is the third most important anthropogenic greenhouse gas, with atmospheric concentrations increasing from 273 to 336 ppb since 1800, primarily due to the use of agricultural fertilisers.
04112|Animal translations: AI and the intelligibility of non‐human worlds
   > is helping to produce posthuman worlds in which linguistic expertise is partially transferred from humans to machines. These new ways of defining language are especially
04113|Global distribution, pathogen spectrum, and invasion potential of Hyalomma anatolicum at the human-livestock interface: A systematic review, meta-anal
   > economy. • Ecological niche models warn of its High invasion risk to new regions (e.g., Australia, the western and eastern United States)—an emerging global biosecurity
04114|An Adaptive Method to Estimate Evapotranspiration using Satellite and Reanalysis Products
   > enhancing operational hydrology, agricultural decision-making, and climate impact assessments in Ireland and other regions facing similar challenges.
04115|A Novel Hybrid Model for Groundwater Vulnerability Assessment and Its Application in a Coastal City
   > integrating swarm intelligence and neural learning into groundwater vulnerability assessment, providing a transferable and high-precision methodological paradigm for data-driven hydrogeological risk evaluation. This novel hybrid … the traditional DRASTIC model to enhance its feasibility in coastal cities and other regions with complex hydrogeological conditions.
04116|An Agentic Framework Using Open-Weight LLMs for Sensor-Integrated Dairy Management Decision Support
   > wireless wearable sensor technology to deliver site-specific decision support without reliance on external connectivity. Keywords: Artificial intelligence, Domain adaptation, Edge computing, Large language models, Precision livestock farming, Small language model.
04117|Skin Cancer Classification by Applying Different Models of Artificial Intelligence
   > protocol with patient-level isolation; the test set was sequestered until terminal evaluation. External generalization was assessed on an independent ISIC 2019 subset (n = 350, 50 per class) without retraining. On … +1.75 % (segmentation), and +1.32 % (Neural Spline Flow refinement). On the external ISIC 2019 data, MLP attained the best cross-domain accuracy of 95.43 %, demonstrating that the feat
04118|Semi-Automated Land Use Database Updating Using Sample Migration and Aerial Orthoimages
   > [no abstract]
04119|Upcycling Polyethylene into Poly(3-hydroxybutyrate) via a Chemo-Enzymatic-Microbial Cascade
   > conditions, and biological routes remain inefficient. This research presents an integrated “chemical pretreatment–biodegradation–upcycling” system that combines the efficiency of chemical catalysis with the sustainability of … learning-aided optimization of reaction conditions and computational redesign of Tf Cut enhanced degradation efficiency, yielding a maximum weight loss of approximately 71.1
04120|Multiomics, multi-species profiling, and animal validation identify mitoxyperilysis as a conserved therapeutic target in metabolic dysfunction-associa
   > lytic cell death, remains poorly defined in MASH. Here, we integrated multiomics, cross-species transcriptomics, machine learning, and in vivo models to dissect mitoxyperilysis activation and
04121|Comprehensive longitudinal study of home-cage activity, including climbing, reveals new complex phenotypic profile in the N171-82Q HD mouse model with
   > [no term] Abstract Monitoring the activity of mice within their home cage is proving to be a powerful tool for revealing subtle and early-onset phenotypes in mouse models. Video tracking, in particular,
04122|A critical review of principal component analysis of groundwater contamination in Nigeria
   > the Niger Delta region for petroleum hydrocarbon contamination studies, its application in other regions and for other contaminant classes (e.g., heavy metals, nitrates, pharmaceuticals) remains
04123|A near-standard soil spectral library to improve stability and transferability of hyperspectral remote sensing models for soil heavy metal prediction
   > bands of soil heavy metal (SHM), thereby reducing the stability, accuracy, and generalizability of prediction models. These limitations ultimately hinder the engineering application of hyperspectral … examined to enhance the accuracy of prediction models and to improve model transferability. The results indicated the characteristic bands of SHM were identified as 405-501,
04124|Архітектура кіберфізичних систем для виявлення дефектів у фотоелектричних модулях на основі пізнього злиття даних із БПЛА
   > ensembling via a late-fusion strategy for M2 and M3 thermal palettes mitigates domain shift. RTK-supported spatial clustering algorithms ensure precise geo-indexing and deduplication, and deterministic
04125|Architecture of cyberphysical systems for UAV-based late-fusion defect detection in photovoltaic modules
   > ensembling via a late-fusion strategy for M2 and M3 thermal palettes mitigates domain shift. RTK-supported spatial clustering algorithms ensure precise geo-indexing and deduplication, and deterministic
04126|VitiDetect-Net: High-Precision Detection Algorithm for Grape Leaf Diseases and Pests
   > device demonstrate an inference speed of 49.5 FPS, meeting real-time diagnostic requirements. Generalization experiments on the VisDrone dense small object dataset show a 1.4 percentage points improvement in mAP50, verifying the strong cross-domain adaptability of the model. This study achieves a good balance between detection
04127|Genomic Predictors of Diapause Polymorphism in the Bark Beetle Ips typographus With Implications for Voltinism Potential and Outbreak Dynamics
   > the strongest and only association robust to empirical null calibration. ML classification independently recovered JHE, detected additional loci involved in protein regulation, signal transduction and
04128|AI and computer vision for wildlife identification in camera trap images: Fine-tuning SpeciesNet outperforms local models for species classification
   > images are required? (iii) How does performance vary between random distribution and out-of-distribution testing? We used the Wildlife Observatory of Australia's tagged image repository for … (species) for all three approaches, and (iii) these advantages were pronounced in out-of-distribution testing (i.e., for new cameras withheld from any model training). We conclude
04129|Combining proximal and remote sensors for regional soil characterization in rural Haiti
   > Future research should work to extend the methodology successfully demonstrated herein to other regions of agronomic importance in Haiti and other developing countries. Furthermore, the
04130|Electrochemical assisted sex diagnosis for dioecious palmyra palm (Borassus flabellifer l.) using reduced graphene oxide nanoparticle grafted leaves
   > [no abstract]
04131|AI-Assisted MOS Gas Sensors: Sensing Materials, MEMS Platforms, Dynamic Operation, and Intelligent Applications
   > tasks evolve from odor-fingerprint discrimination to nonlinear feature interpretation, dynamic response analysis, domain adaptation, and deployable intelligent monitoring. Particular attention is given to the role … morphology, electrode coverage, and thermal coupling are essential for reliable datasets and transferable AI models. Finally, key challenges are discussed, including dataset heterogene
04132|Organelle Topology Is a New Breast Cancer Cell Classifier
   > intra‐tumor heterogeneity by identifying a range of phenotypic and genetic alterations across different regions of a single tumor. Recently, cell morphology has been indicated as … different cell lines based on organelle morphology and topology. This method was tested on three different organelle datasets: mitochondria, early endosomes and recycling endosomes in
04133|EVALUATION OF ANTI EPILEPTIC ACTIVITY OF ETHANOLIC EXTRACT OF MURRAYA KAENIGII ON MES, PTZ INDUCED CONVULSIONS IN RATS
   > EEMK significantly inhibited the PTZ-induced convulsion, prolonged the latency for convulsion and decreased mortality. The PTZ kindling model is a widely used screening model for … compounds. Results based on the PTZ induced clonic seizures and MES induced generalized clonic-tonic seizures in rats model demonstrated that the ethanol extract of Murraya
04134|Confounder-adjusted analysis of statin selectivity across cancer cell lines identifies a colorectal-enriched SLC45A4 signal
   > [no abstract]
04135|Precision diagnosis of GABRA1-associated encephalopathies and epilepsy: optimizing variants classification and molecular subregional effects
   > associated with a broad spectrum of epileptic phenotypes ranging from mild idiopathic generalized epilepsy to severe developmental and epileptic encephalopathy (DEE). To date, the majority … heterogeneity, and the phenotype distribution differed significantly between functionally critical regions and other regions (P = 0.01), indicating a molecular subregional effect. We evaluated 34
04136|Large-scale direct sensing of pine trees for diagnosing pine wilt disease
   > [no abstract]
04137|Three-dimensional settling map for intelligent detection of activated sludge (AS) properties and health evaluation of AS based wastewater treatment
   > smart wastewater treatment but remains challenged by the interference susceptibility and poor generalization of current methods. Here, a Three-Dimensional Settling Map (3D-SM) was proposed to … 99.3% accuracy in classifying filamentous levels on the test set. A 71-day cross-site validation at one industrial AO treatment plant confirmed consistent performance (R2>0.801, accuracy>95.2%)
04138|The role of chromosomal rearrangements, polyploidy, and genome size variation in the diversity and ecological distribution of Asparagus L. species: a 
   > clines within plant species but also predicts their growth and distribution across different regions and in response to climate change. We used discriminant analysis of
04139|Non-destructive diagnostics and early-warning systems for Penicillium rot in fresh produce: A review of emerging technologies
   > [no abstract]
04140|Predicting Quantitative MIC from Whole Genome Sequencing
   > from whole-genome sequencing (WGS) are currently built mostly for single species and trained on geographically narrow collections, so it remains unclear whether they generalise across regions, sub-lineages, or taxa. This pilot proposes a globally representative benchmark … such as CABBAGE. It would then train and evaluate both species-specific and cross-species MIC prediction models under phylogen
04141|Collaborative Detection of Power Equipment Failures and Worker Protection for Hydropower Stations: Research on the Lightweight DRR-YOLOv11s Model
   > [no abstract]
04142|Epidemiology and Transmission Dynamics of Environmentally Mediated Infectious Diseases at the Wildlife-Livestock-Human Interface
   > diseases across a continuum of ecological complexity, progressing from within-species transmission to cross-species transmission, and ultimately to transmission within a One Health framework. Within-species transmission … mechanistically defining indirect transmission pathways when evaluating disease dynamics in wildlife populations. Cross-species transmission was investigated through avian influe
04143|Ultra-Short-Term Photovoltaic Power Forecasting Based on TCN Contrastive Encoding and xLSTM
   > by 24.8%. The model exhibits the slowest error accumulation and the strongest cross-site generalization. On a highly volatile day, its forecast curve follows the actual power
04144|A Practical Framework for Securing AI-Driven Decision Loops in Industrial Control Systems
   > strictly as conditionally trusted inputs. The framework integrates source telemetry integrity screening, out-of-distribution (OOD) detection, Physics-Informed Validation (PIV), deterministic controller-level bounded enforcement, and risk-stratified human
04145|Identification of hidden subtypes in occupational health examinations and their biomedical characteristics using graph-enhanced deep representation le
   > interpreted in terms of clinical abnormality burden, risk gradients, temporal drift, and cross-domain stability. Results: The cohort exhibited substantial heterogeneity across units and years, as
04146|When Genetics Meets Ecology: Genomics and Taxonomy of Vitis Species and Cultivars
   > [no term] Knowledge of the biology of the genus Vitis has undergone a profound transformation, evolving from the morphological descriptions of classical ampelography to the high-resolution analyses enabled by modern phylogenomics. This
04147|Humanizing pulmonary care in the era of acoustic artificial intelligence: toward global health equity
   > inspection. In thyroid ultrasound, for example, more than 80% of networks were trained on single-centre Asian cohorts; when ThyNet, originally hailed for having an 89% accuracy, was re-tested on an external dataset its performance sank to 64%, illustrating how hidden sampling bias is … local health services. Third, it may be worth considering the implementation of cross-regional, collaboratively g
04148|Specialty grand challenge in neuroinfectious diseases
   > billion already at risk. Rising global temperatures could extend DENV's reach to new regions, including the USA, Japan, and China, while South and West Africa … anti-infective drug discovery, understanding infection biology, and the development of new diagnostics. Generalizable AI models require extensive and representative datasets, including data from LMICs and
04149|ANDES: a novel best-match approach for enhancing gene set analysis in embedding spaces
   > [no term] A bstract Embedding methods have emerged as a valuable class of approaches for distilling essential information from complex high-dimensional data into more accessible lower-dimensional spaces. Applications of embedding methods to
04150|Engineering synthetic microbial communities for soil restoration: from rational design to multi-scale biogeochemical applications
   > Soil degradation caused by intensive land use, pollution, and climate stress threatens food production … search space, but empirical validation remains essential to establish causality, persistence, and transferability across soils and hosts.
04151|Laboratory test-ordering patterns carry an early prognostic signal in electronic health records
   > [no abstract]
04152|Precision nutrition: 8 stages and 5 dimensions
   > of folic acid deficiency or lack of dietary folic acid intake, including decreased serum folic acid levels, decreased red blood folic acid, increased serum homocysteine levels, bone marrow and other … 5-MTHF. Populations with the mutated MTHFR 677 TT genotype show a 70% decrease in MTHFR enzyme activity compared to the wild-type CC genotype.[42] In the
04153|Role of GDF15 in Lithium-Induced Tubulointerstitial Remodeling
   > [no term] Background: Lithium salts are the first-line treatment for bipolar disorder, a common and severe psychiatric condition. However, long-term use can cause two renal side effects: nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) and
04154|Towards an objective classification of pachychoroid disease and its risk of progression
   > [no abstract]
04155|Exploring Hybrid Forecasting Frameworks for Subseasonal Low Flow Predictions in the European Alps
   > prediction skill, as well as the framework's applicability in ungauged areas and other regions.
04156|FEDERATED LEARNING ARCHITECTURES FOR PREDICTIVE QUALITY CONTROL IN DISTRIBUTED MANUFACTURING SYSTEMS
   > readiness and communication efficiency exhibit strong positive associations with PQC outcomes, whereas cross-site heterogeneity negatively affects performance. Crucially, hierarchical FL architectures moderate these relationships, attenuating
04157|One Health, One Genome: A Critical Appraisal of Artificial Intelligence–enabled Genomics for Global Infectious Disease Surveillance
   > automation, sequence-based fitness and antigenic escape prediction, protein and genome language models, cross-species host and spillover inference, genotype-to-phenotype prediction of antimicrobial resistance, and wastewater and … Confidence weakens progressively for retrospective fitness inference, and is weakest for prospective cross-species risk prediction, where reported discrimination is diff
04158|Ultrasonic high-cycle thermal fatigue monitoring
   > shown to be feasible using machine learning, assuming the training data reflects real-world conditions, although the (expected) computational speed benefits over physics-based UT were not … Simulations showed significantly improved fatigue life estimates using ITM-predicted temperatures compared with external temperature measurements. Literature analysis suggested that 1D temperature fields are pl
04159|Endophytic fungi dominate alkaloid variation in Aconitum carmichaelii Debx.: insights from multiregional analysis of environmental and microbial facto
   > [no abstract]
04160|Confidence-Guided Fallback Strategy: Fusing Traditional Binarization and Deep Segmentation for Real-Time Pupil Detection
   > adaptively balancing accuracy and efficiency on a per-frame basis. RITNet is not trained on LPW; thus, LPW evaluation simultaneously constitutes cross-dataset validation. Hyperparameters (confidence weights and threshold values) are tuned on a validation set (15% of LPW subjects) and final performance is reported on an independent test set (18% of subjects), avoiding data leakage. On the validatio
04161|D5.5 Short-term ecological forecasts in support of the Bioeconomy Strategy and EU citizens
   > [no term] A relevant number of ecological questions raised by policymakers, managers, and citizens often pertain to the short-term future (e.g., the coming days or weeks). In this sense, short-term ecological and
04162|An automated machine vision-based index for Rett Syndrome provides a generalizable framework for modeling rare disease therapeutics
   > Mecp2 minigene rescue study, the composite score reproduced genotype separation in an independent cohort and detected both a partial shift of treated hemizygous survivors toward … These results establish an objective, high-resolution severity index for RTT and a generalizable framework for preclinical phenotyping in a rare disease.
04163|From habitat prediction to cost-effective intervention: A spatial modelling and connectivity framework for firefly conservation planning
   > focal species. We compared random forest (RF), boosted regression trees (BRT), and generalized additive models (GAM), and found that a two-stage spatial hurdle model showed … out-of-sample performance among the frameworks compared, particularly for conditional abundance under spatially independent validation. By modelling occurrence and conditional abundance separately while accounting for spatial
04164|Novel predictors of late recurrence after catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation: from biomarkers to artificial intelligence models
   > from retrospective single-center cohorts and is constrained by overfitting, variable rhythm-monitoring protocols, dataset shift, and inadequate external validation. Predictive performance also depends on the clinical and procedural context and
04165|Metabolic rewiring for nutritional enhancement in Tartary buckwheat grains: Reshaping quality along the domestication-to-improvement trajectory
   > [no term] Tartary buckwheat is a nutrient-rich pseudocereal, yet the metabolic basis underlying quality shifts from domestication to breeding improvement remains poorly understood. Here, phenotyping together with untargeted and targeted metabolomics was
04166|Integrative analysis of the MDM2 promoter switch and cellular lineage plasticity in colorectal cancer: a contrast between the autonomous-proliferation
   > P1 and P2 signatures (gene sets characterizing P1- and P2-dominant samples) were externally validated in TCGA-COAD/READ (n = 624) and GSE39582 (n = 536), 1,160 … in public cell-line panels (GDSC2, DepMap) and in 65 lines of an independent patient-derived CRC organoid biobank. Results Deep-learning morphological classification reached 98.5% test accuracy
04167|Intelligent Environmental Monitoring: Business Intelligence and AI Framework for Ecological Decision-Making Using Public Sustainability Data
   > [no abstract]
04168|Antibody-based neuronal and axonal delivery vectors for targeted ligand delivery
   > surface to volume ratios and metabolic demands, and interactions with internal and external environments. The peripheral neuropathies, disorders of peripheral nerves, are common, associated with … show that anti-ganglioside mAb localizes to lysosomal compartment, enzyme replacement therapy is another potential application of this approach in neuronal lysosomal storage disorders like Tay-Sachs
04169|Modeling Human Impact on the Distribution of the Only Existing Species of Euryale
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Human activity has a profound impact on the distribution of a number of species, especially those with ecological and economic importance. Euryale ferox Salisb., an annual macrophyte native to
04170|DepthCanopyNet: Toward High-Precision Canopy Height Mapping via Gradient-Enhanced Learning Using Single UAV Optical Imagery
   > two UAV datasets—one from a coniferous forest with moderate stand density and another from a broad-leaved forest with high stand density—demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms state-of-the-art architectures. On the coniferous forest dataset, the absolute relative loss decreased by 0.0128, while on the broad-leaved forest dataset, it decreased by 0.0076. In addition, cross-dataset out-of-
04171|Hydra-LLM: A Large Language Model Framework for Irregularly Sampled Wastewater Quality Analysis
   > [no abstract]
04172|Artificial Intelligence in Multimodal Neuroimaging Research on Depression: A Bibliometric Analysis
   > a coherent, translationally focused field. Current trends emphasize model validation, interpretability, and cross-site generalization, supported by expanding international collaboration. Future priorities include harmonized data sharing, explainable
04173|Molecular Approaches to Transplant Monitoring; Is the Horizon Here?
   > generally implemented as surveillance, wherein patients undergo testing at predetermined posttransplant intervals independent of symptoms or clinical suspicion of allograft dysfunction. When patients present with … different studies. Fractional determination is insensitive to changes in the rate of degradation of cfDNA in blood circulation. It has, however, the disadvantage that it
04174|Multimodel quantification of the driving factors behind the spatiotemporal dynamics of dissolved organic matter in Baiyangdian Lake, China
   > autumn. Spatially, from northwest to southeast, the proportions of C1 and C3 decreased, whereas the proportion of C2 increased, indicating a reduction in humification degree … in endogenous transformation led to generation of fulvic acid, primarily via the degradation of aquatic macrophytes, whereas in other regions, protein-like DOM was mainly produced through algal and microbial metabolism. Rand
04175|Analysis of the Spatiotemporal Evolution of the Net Primary Productivity of Glycyrrhiza uralensis Fisch. and Its Influencing Factors from 2014- 2022
   > [no abstract]
04176|Thickness-aware multitask U-Net for filament segmentation from cytoskeleton to extracellular matrix
   > [no abstract]
04177|Evaluating resolution requirements for subtle caenorhabditis elegans strain discrimination using classical descriptors and CNN–transformer models
   > from N2. We then trained a CNN-Transformer directly on image sequences. When trained on macro-camera data, the model failed to discriminate between N2 and vltIs66, whereas the same architecture trained on micro-camera sequences achieved robust separation, revealing phenotype-specific patterns not captured by … This resolution sweep showed that performance remains stable under moderate downsampling
04178|Oxidative Stress Response Pathways in Animal Models of Impaired Proximal Kidney Tubule Phosphate Transport
   > [no term] Introduction: We have previously published studies suggesting that kidney cortex of animals with deficiency of the Na-H Exchanger Regulatory Factor 1 (NHERF1) shows increased activity of the pentose phosphate pathway
04179|From Indicator to Prediction: Five Decades of Biochemical Oxygen Demand Research in Tropical Freshwaters
   > incubation delay, context dependence, sensitivity to microbial and environmental conditions, and limited transferability across basins. We argue that BOD should remain a core regulatory benchmark,
04180|Automated real-time aggression analysis in european lobster using depth imaging
   > [no term] • Infrared depth imaging enables non-intrusive analysis of lobster behavior. • Vision algorithm extracts real-time behavioral features from depth imaging. • Feature sets from single lobster trials were tested for
04181|A shotgun approach for highly multiplexed mammalian metabolic engineering
   > large one—into mammalian cells. This allows each cell to serve as an independent experiment, carrying a unique synthetic metabolic pathway that explores combinations of gene
04182|Massively parallel flow-cytometry-based screening of hematopoietic lineage cell populations from up to 25 donors simultaneously
   > This technique is suitable for screening immune cells in bone marrow from different locations, blood specimens, or any tissue with a substantial presence of immune
04183|Resolving tumor microenvironment heterogeneity to forecast immunotherapy response in triple-negative breast cancer through multi-scale analysis
   > [no term] Background: Immunotherapy has been used in the clinical management of TNBC. While BRCA1 mutations are associated with immunotherapy response, the therapeutic outcomes in TNBC patients are not promising. Methods: This
04184|Non-Structural Protein-13 Mutations in European Isolates of SARS-CoV-2 Changed Protein Stability
   > success of the fight against the virus with different treatment approaches in different regions.
04185|The Genetic Origin of Uneven Cognitive Profiles in Heritable Neurodevelopmental Conditions and Individual Differences: Computational Investigations
   > influence the neurocomputational properties of a common substrate, under a polygenic model. Different regions of the substrate become specialised for developing different functions, modelled by … as association cortex in a cortical lobe), where domains are specialised to different regions with shared properties, may exhibit uneven cognitive profiles if the processing
04186|X-Ray Crystal Structures And Enzyme Kinetic Investigations Of Drug-Resistant Mutants Of Hiv-1 Protease
   > better inhibition, suggesting a novel mechanism for resistance. Finally, structural studies of another mutant selected by machine learning, PRS5B, reveal coordinated structural changes leading to decreased intra-subunit interactions and intermediate levels of resistance to PIs. The sum of
04187|PF-SRIDM: An industrial grade super-resolution reconstruction method for soil CT images based on diffusion network and progressive fusion
   > CT images from 256 × 256 to 1024 × 1024, supporting broader cross-domain applicability. By enabling the generation of high-fidelity, high-resolution soil images from low-resolution
04188|Physics-Informed Predictive Control for Integrated Electric-Vehicle Thermal Management: An Open, Real-Data-Anchored Benchmark
   > (two-node) models are validated against converged higher-fidelity references and, for the cabin, independently cross-checked against EnergyPlus 25.2.0. On top of the benchmark we develop a … that is exact on conserved quantities and dominates black-box and Koopman surrogates out-of-distribution (overall rollout RMSE 0.014 vs 1.168 and 3.991). A shielded Sci-ML model-predictive
04189|Cerebral pneumography and the 20th century localization of brain tumours
   > Medicine (Collier, 1924). By that time, German internist Adolf Bingel (1879–1953) had, independently from Dandy, discovered lumbar injections of air to detect tumour-induced alterations of … and proved to be instrumental for the establishment of neurology as an independent specialty in medicine (Fig. 4). During the congress, there was a specific
04190|MLOps for a Safety-Critical Fusion Control Stack: Versioned Lineage, Gated Model Promotion, and Physics-Balanced Multi-GPU Training for a Compact Sphe
   > the Kronos reduced-order engine reproduces 19 of 19 frozen anchors and an independent formal verification-and-validation suite clears the same 19/19, both bit-stably across three independent environments. The components that feed the gate are demonstrated to their own … · Learn more about Kronos Part of the 2026 Kronos publication series; independently re-run and stamped in the Kronos de-risking r
04191|Optimizing Image Data Management: A Workflow-Driven Approach for FAIR and Reusable High-Content Screening pipelines with OMERO
   > [no abstract]
04192|Notes of Life: A platform for recording species observations driven by artificial intelligence
   > and images of wildlife through our mobile app while they are investigating in the wild. The website is used for bulk data uploading and management.
04193|Developing a new digital vision for rangeland grazing systems
   > to lowland grasslands, tracking and monitoring livestock location and health, and restoring degraded peatlands where feasible (McCracken, 2021). Access to real-time data to aid management … which technological innovations could help monitor identified welfare issues# Technological innovations are tested on pilot farms (Kirkton is one of them) alongside welfare assessments+,= List
04194|Zoning of Integrated Quality Regions for Alpinia officinarum Hance Based on a Multi-Model Evaluation System
   > this study developed an integrated modeling platform incorporating nine algorithms. These included generalized linear models, machine learning techniques, and a MaxEnt model optimized using ENMeval
04195|A brief outlook on the current emerging trends of COVID 19 vaccines
   > the genome of one virus is used to deliver the antigen of another virus, thus allowing the development of a platform technology of virus production.[25] … these were raised not only to recognize the RBD region but also other regions of the spike protein that were not contained at all in
04196|SCPInt: explicit disentanglement of biological and batch variation for single-cell proteomics integration
   > [no abstract]
04197|From theory to practice: New innovations and their application in conservation biology
   > [no term] Evolution has generated an extraordinary diversity of life on Earth that drives the function of natural ecosystems (Xu et al., 2020), human cultures (Clark et al., 2014), and economies (Hanley
04198|Primate mothers promote proximity between their offspring and infants who look like them
   > the tenure of the same alpha male resemble each other the most, independently of their age, sex or maternal origin, extending previous results to the
04199|Intermittent fasting modulates immune signatures but not TNF-dependent pathology in mice with constitutive STING activation
   > [no term] Abstract The cGAS–STING pathway is a central mediator of antiviral immunity, yet its constitutive activation causes severe systemic autoinflammatory disease and neurodegeneration. Intermittent fasting (IF) has been proposed as a
04200|Inferences from epigenetic information in an ecological context: a case study of early-life environmental effects on DNA methylation in zebra finches
   > [no term] DNA methylation (DNAm) plays a key role in mediating phenotypic responses to environmental variation. Various approaches exist to link DNAm variation to phenotypes, ranging from single-nucleotide resolution to the development
04201|Quantitative three-dimensional imaging of Coxiella burnetii infection by focused ion beam-scanning electron microscopy
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Coxiella burnetii is a highly virulent intracellular pathogen and the causative agent of acute and chronic Q fever in humans. Central to its pathogenicity is the Dot/Icm type IV
04202|Dietary tryptophan ameliorates metalaxyl-induced colitis by restoring microbial tryptophan metabolism and aryl hydrocarbon receptor activation
   > [no term] Introduction The extensive production of environmental pollutants has heightened susceptibility to intestinal disorders, potentially through alterations in the gut microbiota. However, the precise role of the gut microbiota in environmental
04203|Probing impact of allosteric (or distal) mutations on protein function through time-dependent linear response theory
   > [no abstract]
04204|Divergent Behavioral and Circuit-Level Adaptations to Acute and Chronic Gastric Electrical Stimulation
   > system enabling chronic neuromodulation in freely moving rats. We combined this with cross-species whole-brain activity mapping in mice to interrogate circuit-level mechanisms. Using open field … the behavioral dissociation between contextual exploration and explicit threat avoidance, providing convergent cross-species evidence that gastric stimulation engages distributed anxiety-related networks.
04205|PhenoQC: An integrated toolkit for quality control of phenotypic data in genomic research
   > [no term] Large-scale genomic research requires robust, consistent phenotypic datasets for meaningful genotype–phenotype correlations. However, diverse collection protocols, incomplete entries, and heterogeneous terminologies frequently compromise data quality and slows downstream analysis. To
04206|2021 American Society of Naturalists Awards
   > the very big questions of how and why organisms cooperate with one another. Her work has revealed the enormous sophistication of cooperative interactions. Kiers has
04207|ID #163 HOPE4KIDS: AI-Enabled Web Platform for Tumor and Age Agnostic Assessment of Brain Tumor Burden from MRI
   > for brain tumor segmentation in magnetic resonance imaging. InInternational Challenge on Cross-Modality Domain Adaptation for Medical Image Segmentation 2023 Oct 8 (pp. 221-232). Cham: Springer
04208|Bone marrow adipose tissue
   > [no abstract]
04209|Advanced Performance Analysis of an Intelligent Aerial System for Structural Identification and Regional Anomaly Detection Using Reflective Spectrosco
   > [no abstract]
04210|Biological heterogeneity of obesity-related nephrolithiasis risk: an integrative transcriptomic and circulating biomarker study
   > serum testing. The resulting panel was evaluated in additional transcriptomic datasets, an independent serum cohort of 80 participants, and a mouse model of obesity-enhanced renal … panel tracked with adiposity in two adipose transcriptomic datasets and showed exploratory cross-species signal in a rat kidney transcriptomic dataset. In serum, all four proteins
04211|EU Data Access Regimes and the Viability of GeoAI: From Citizen Sensors to Regional and Local SDIs
   > [no abstract]
04212|Sleep Identification Enabled by Supervised Training Algorithms (SIESTA): An Open-Source Platform for Automatic Sleep Staging of Rodent Electrocorticog
   > [no term] Accurately capturing the temporal distribution of polysomnographic sleep stages is critical for the study of sleep function, regulation, and disorders in higher vertebrates. In laboratory rodents, scoring of electrocorticography (ECoG)
04213|Shared architecture, competing objectives: experimental evolution in Drosophila instantiates negative transfer in multi-task learning
   > [no abstract]
04214|Only three principal components account for inter-embryo variability of the spindle length over time
   > thus propose that beyond the apparent complexity of the spindle, only three independent mechanisms account for spindle elongation, and contribute differently in the various conditions,
04215|Exploring the feasibility of data augmentation while using smaller biobank data sets
   > results showed a similar trend. In addition to HLA region, only two other regions were replicated for TWB. Population heterogeneity may contribute to this discrepancy.
04216|NeuroRAD-FM: A Foundation Model for Neuro-Oncology with Distributionally Robust Training
   > data and tumor complexity, limiting the ability of foundation models (FMs) to generalize across cohorts. Existing FMs also perform poorly in predicting uncommon molecular markers, … robust loss function, enabling accurate estimation of tumor phenotypes while maintaining cross-institution generalization. We pretrained self-supervised backbones (BYOL, DINO, MAE, MoCo) on multi-institutional brain tu
04217|The impact of drug allergy on planetary health and sustainability
   > [no term] Adverse drug reactions account for up to 3% to 6% of all hospital admissions and in 10% to 15% of hospitalized patients, resulting in morbidity, prolonged hospitalization, and risk of
04218|Genotype-Specific Electrophysiological Remodeling in PLN R14del Cardiomyopathy: Implications for Precision Antiarrhythmic Therapy
   > [no term] BACKGROUND Inherited PLN (phospholamban) R14del variants cause dilated cardiomyopathy with a high burden of malignant ventricular arrhythmias. However, the single-cell electrophysiological substrate underlying arrhythmogenicity is incompletely characterized, and it is
04219|A boundary-aware heterogeneous graph framework for fine-grained segmentation of tree crown-trunk components using UAV LiDAR and multi-view imagery
   > [no abstract]
04220|ASSESSING BIODIVERSITY LITERACY AND CONSERVATION ATTITUDES: EVALUATING MULTIDISCIPLINARY PERSPECTIVES ON REGIONAL FAUNA AND ECOLOGICAL PROTECTION
   > [no term] Public awareness is urgently needed to save biodiversity from the increasing threats of global extinction. This study examined the knowledge gap and conservation attitudes of 248 students from science and
04221|A Certified Control-Barrier Safety Filter for Fusion Control: Forward-Invariance Guarantees, Calibrated Uncertainty, and an Honest PINN Negative for a
   > ladder — formal reachability, Simplex runtime assurance, neural-Lyapunov/input-to-state-stability certificates, conformal prediction and out-of-distribution gating — naming which rungs are demonstrated here and which are required-next. … · Learn more about Kronos Part of the 2026 Kronos publication series; independently re-run and stamped in the Kronos de-risking register (DOI 10.5281/zenodo.22645
04222|Poster Session I - A34 IMAGING MASS CYTOMETRY REVEALS ALTERED IMMUNE CELL SPATIAL RELATIONSHIPS DURING INFLAMMATORY BOWEL DISEASE EXACERBATIONS
   > many patients only having inflammation in specific regions of their gut, with other regions being unaffected. Cellular organization in the multi-layered tissue levels is crucial, … inflammation status to determine which cells are found in relation to one another. Results In both gut regions, spatial interactions of classical macrophages (CD169+) and
04223|Boxed
   > present. The one from the late twentieth century has arrows pointing to different regions of the brain, each a different color, with names and short
04224|Investigating the Efficiency of Visible-Near Infra-Red (NIR) Spectrometry to Estimate Selected Soil Properties in Semirom Area, Isfahan
   > [no term] Introduction Estimating soil properties on large scales using experimental methods requires specialized equipments and can be extremely time-consuming and expensive, especially when dealing with a high spatial sampling density. Soil
04225|Annotation of cell types in single-cell sequencing for cardiovascular disease: Concepts, workflows, challenges, and best practices
   > as leading performers, whereas ensemble consensus approaches that integrate two or more independent methods enhance robustness. We further highlight cardiovascular-specific challenges, including modality-dependent differences in … heterogeneity, immune cell tissue adaptation, disease-induced transitional cell states, and barriers to cross-species translation. Finally, we present a ten-step best-pr
04226|From sequencing to understanding: a grand challenge in genome-scale molecular and genetic analysis
   > allows us to identify patterns related to disease resistance and responses to external factors (Arvas et al. 2023;Kalendar and Kairov 2024;Kalendar et al. 2011;English et … individual bacterial strains as "pure cultures" in a nutrient solution and then transferred them to an organism (mice or guinea pigs), thus provoking disease. This
04227|Toward a Poetics of Chile…in Another Mexico
   > of dice, the surprise in the next square: perhaps a slide to another branch of the maze, a devouring monster. We could not have explained … for I joined the my father the in my grandfather’s recipe was another I to is what I saw and when I helped the teeth
04228|InterviewAn interview with Dr. Peter Sutovsky
   > brother and his classmates with a biology class assignment. We collected insects in the wild, filled up a display case with specimens and used a … which then gave me the big opportunity to grow and develop an independent career in an intellectually stimulating environment. The other was accepting a job
04229|Application of information technologies for management and sustainable development of mountain areas
   > possible to identify spatial patterns of territorial development, evaluate the suitability of different regions for infrastructure expansion, and provide an analytical basis for strategic decision-making.
04230|Synchrophasor Sensing and Processing based Smart Grid Security Assessment for Renewable Energy Integration
   > dynamic voltage security assessment method relies on time-domain simulations of faults at different locations, the proposed approach is feasible, convenient and effective. Conventionally, wind energy
04231|Abstract A058: Meta-analysis of single-cell RNA expression in genetically engineered mouse models of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma reveals inter-mo
   > model on manually labeled human sc-RNA-seq data from 20 patients. To enable cross-species use, the classifier was trained using only genes with both human and
04232|Unlocking the Secrets of Gene Regulatory Networks with 'Quantum Hamiltonian Learning (QHL)' AI
   > Hamiltonian matrix constructed using tensor products. Gene qubits, which initially start in independent separable states, evolve according to the Schrödinger equation along pseudotime, an indicator
04233|The Many Ecologies of AI
   > off by climate change. Yet the smart home has a kind of external immune system—and womb—that protects Anwuli and her child from the worst of … City Is Not a Computer: Other Urban Intelligences, and Peter Dauvergne’s AI in the Wild: Sustainability in the Age of Artificial Intelligence. Rather than opposing
04234|Understanding the genetic interplay between human ApoE4 and novel App NL‐F knock‐in in Alzheimer's Disease male mouse model
   > [no term] Abstract Background Humanized ApoE4, a major genetic risk factor for late‐onset Alzheimer's Disease (AD), is associated with synaptic dysfunction, neuroinflammation, and deficits in Aβ clearance. To investigate genetic drivers of
04235|Biophysical Impact Of Β-Cardiac Myosin Cardiomyopathy Mutations And Development Of Artificial Intelligence-Based In Vitro Motility Analysis
   > the auto-inhibited state, but increased actin filament velocity of long-tail constructs. F764L decreased velocity in long-tail constructs and, to a much lesser extent, in the
04236|Large Artery Atherosclerosis Induced Endothelial Senescence Increases Cerebral Microhemorrhage Vulnerability in Ldlr-KO Mice
   > analysis revealed increased neurological deficit in Ldlr-KO mice. Senolytic treatment with ABT263 decreased EC senescence, which eventually reduced CMH formation and ameliorated both gait deficits
04237|Integrated vegetation map of biotopes in the southern part of the Chechen Republic (using modeling)
   > [no term] An assessment of the spatial organization of foothill, mountain and intrazonal biotopes was carried out as a result of mountainous vegetation survey in southern part of the Chechen Republic. The
04238|The Role of Landscape Context, Management Intensity, and Vegetation Heterogeneity in Shaping Urban Park Multifunctionality – A Case Study of Chengdu
   > indicates the theory of making ecological trade-offs in the intensive maintenance regimes. Independent effects of park area and surrounding impervious cover are weaker than internal … delivering ecosystem services. The suggested stratified and spatially explicit model offers a generalizable model towards the optimization of urban park planning in fast developing urban
04239|AutoLineage: Operation-Level Data Lineage for Python ML Pipelines via Import-Time Hooking
   > [no abstract]
04240|Architecture of The First Ontological, Vectorial, and Computational Framework for Artificial Consciousness Grounded in Homeostatic Biosemiotics
   > empirically derived. MC N = 8,000, R² = 0.63–0.65, p < 0.02. Cross-species ordering confirmed: Sheep > Human > Guinea Pig > Rat. KTP Protocol: … Butlin et al. 2025 (Annex N): 4/5 consciousness indicator clusters matched via independent derivation from cellular-homeostatic first principles. ACPS adds 2 requirements absent from Butlin
04241|Conserved Transcriptional Signatures of Microglia in Health and Disease (P2-3.011)
   > were pre-processed for quality control and harmonized according to species prior to cross-species integration. We developed classifier models of microglia using logistic regression and support
04242|Leonardo@Djerassi 2022: Gallery
   > [no term] Krista DeNioThe NETWORK project (of which I am choreographer/director/ instigator) is an ongoing exploration and creation of audience-participatory, land-based performance experiences. These experiences are intended to share biological processes for
04243|Are we misreading microbial value? Reframing industrial relevance through regenerative systems thinking
   > is structured into distinct functional niches, with different taxa contributing to carbon degradation, nutrient transformations and the handling of metals and other stressors (Wasmund et … how community composition, functional redundancy and cross-feeding contribute to robustness in waste degradation and nutrient-recovery processes. Rather than focusing solely on the yield of a
04244|You Nakai: Reminded by the Instruments
   > the rest of the book, legible but fairly original ideograms would become another subtopic in Tudor's career, a bridge between materials and humans, but also … technical analysis of Mumma's circuits. Nakai's discussion of Tudor's “Pulser” circuit sets another high bar for the rest of the book, as he not only
04245|Gene therapy matures to medicines
   > cell type. Improving the activity of the gene product being expressed is another important step forward, as it lowers the vector doses required for efficacy.
04246|Model Spread and Bias in Snowpack in the American Mountain West
   > the melt-rate of the snowpack. Finally, we construct machine learning emulator models trained on reanalysis that are useful diagnostic tools for the snowpack biases and … water equivalent (hereafter SWE). As the climate warms, one might anticipate a decrease in SWE as it becomes too warm for the surface to support
04247|WIN Symposium 2022 – Abstract Poster Presentations
   > by preclinical evidence with potential efficacy that could be candidates for clinical development.Another subset of posters outlines the essential role of multi-omics approaches, combining Next … not entirely rule out response, indicating the need for improved patient stratification. Another example is the uncoupling of AKT activity from PIK3CA mutations in some
04248|2023 ISCB innovator award: Dana Pe’er
   > but also provided critical career advice as she prepared to become an independent researcher. Pe’er launched her own lab in 2006 at Columbia University in … she said, “My focus on biology completely changed. I was in a new environment with great peers, like Sasha Rudensky and Scott Lowe, who also
04249|11th International Deer Biology Congress
   > [no term] This Collection of full papers and short communications records the plenary presentations and oral and poster presentations submitted at the 11th International Deer Biology Congress, held in Dunedin, New Zealand
04250|Titles and Authors/Editors of Books Reviewed
   > 141Animals’ Best Friends: Putting Compassion to Work for Animals in Captivity and in the Wild, by B. J. King, 230Anthropocene: A Multidisciplinary Approach, by J. … Animals’ Best Friends: Putting Compassion to Work for Animals in Captivity and in the Wild, 230Knapp S., Extraordinary Orchids, 153Konur O. (ed.), Handbook of Algal
04251|Highlights from Recent Cancer Literature
   > [no term] Cells representing a BRCAness phenotype are vulnerable to PARP inhibitors and DNA damaging agents. However, most tumors do not demonstrate a BRCAness phenotype. Although recent studies reveal that BRCAness may
04252|Highlighted Research Articles
   > and specificity across stages and subtypes. The results were validated in an independent population. This study demonstrates the potential for a combined approach using cfDNA … species’ cancer prevalence increased with body mass and somatic mutation rates but decreased with longer gestation times. Species with exceptionally low (black-footed penguins, common porpoises,
04253|From Petri Plates to Petri Nets, a revolution in yeast biology
   > and the dosages at which they should be administered. This is yet another example of how the systematic analysis of gene function in yeast (or
04254|Proteomic Characterization of Acute Myeloid Leukemia
   > AML including nucleophosmin 1 (NPM1)-mutated AML. Methods: We used a label-free (LF), data-independent (DIA) MS-based proteomic workflow to profile protein expression in bone marrow-derived leukemic … The global protein expression structure, represented by inter-sample Euclidean distance, was largely independent of blast maturity, genetic risk groups and mutations. In our combined cohort
04255|Mechanics and Transport Across the Thoracic Aortic Wall: Experimental and Computational Characterization of Elastic Fiber-Deficient Arteries
   > increases with disease severity and matrix accumulation, while the I1 coefficient xi1 decreases with loss of elastic fiber integrity, producing a quantitative xi1/xi2 inversion that … are the dominant determinants of fluid and solute flux, respectively. Fitted k0 decreases with aneurysm severity, while deff shows a non-monotonic pattern: elevated in non-aneurysmal
04256|PSRC 2025 Annual Meeting Abstracts Supplement Table of Contents
   > With Complex Spinal Reconstructive Needs: An Initial Cohort And Associated Outcomes 47 Cross-Species Conservation of Cellular Phenotypes in the Wound Microenvironment 48 Enhancer-Based Gene Therapy … Synergistic Approach to Scaffold Vascularization 73 Artificial Intelligence-Enabled Prediction of Osteoradionecrosis Following Transferred Fibula Flap for Head and Neck Tumor Resection and Segmental M
04257|Digital motor markers for early autism detection: promise, pitfalls, and a path to clinics
   > based on motor patterns (29,30).Beyond hand and body movements, eye-movement dynamics represent another promising but underexplored source of motor information. Studies have revealed altered oculomotor … behaviors can improve the translational relevance of DMMs and ensure that findings generalize beyond controlled experimental conditions. Third, there are still significant technical obstacles link
04258|Eugenia Chiappe
   > [no abstract]
04259|Photovoltaics literature survey (No. 191)
   > CW, Chen X, et al. A robust I–V curve correction procedure for degraded photovoltaic modules. Renewable Energy 2024; 224: 120108. Zandi S, Hameiri Z, Mahboubi … 14(2): 226-232. Arriaga Arruti O, Gnocchi L, Jeangros Q, et al. Potential-induced degradation in bifacial silicon heterojunction solar modules: Insights and mitigation strategies. Progress in
04260|Journal-related Activities and Other Special Activities at the 2023 American Society of Anesthesiologists Meeting
   > outcomes.Anesthesiology is sponsoring two best abstract sessions: one in basic science and another in clinical science. The abstracts were chosen by a panel of editors … clinical in major by one of the authors and by a by another will on the and providing in the on those and aspects of
04261|Fish habitat ecology in a changing climate
   > 2010). Furthermore, migratory fish have been heavily impacted by habitat fragmentation and degradation, climate change, and overexploitation, resulting in widespread declines, particularly among those that … and functional connectivity in aquatic ecosystems, discussing the implications of predicted species distribution shifts in response to warming, hypoxia, and other stressors. They outline key
04262|GEODESIC: Genomic Evolution On Davis-Embedded Surfaces for Integrated Cancer Detection
   > angular (tissue-of-origin) coordinates. Eight validation studies establish geometric learnability, modality-axis separation, cross-cohort generalization, biological grounding, clinical utility, and CHIP discrimination. Theoretical Framework GEODESIC maps cancer … separation Methylation: 82% tissue; Mutations: ρ = 0.98 radius ✓ 3 Cross-cohort generalization ρ = 0.986 (MSK-IMPACT, frozen weights) ✓ 
04263|A most important gift: the critical role of postmortem brain tissue in autism science
   > treatments and causes of death (6,7). Histological abnormalities have been noted in different regions of the cerebral cortex (eg, prefrontal and frontal cortex, fusiform gyrus, … gene expression studies to be carried out on specific cell types from different regions of postmortem brain. These powerful approaches, in turn, have disclosed cell-specific
04264|Academic Contributions and Field Advances of the International Takotsubo Registry: A Comment from Multidimensional Perspectives
   > 3,957 patients from 15 countries worldwide across Europe, Asia, North America, and other regions.[3] Based on insights from 27 core publications derived exclusively from InterTAK … to have physical triggers (68% vs. 36%), though ethnicity itself does not independently predict mortality.[12] Meanwhile, this evolving demographic profile coincides with increasing recognition of
04265|Tumor–neuron interactions: A novel concept contributor to glioblastoma invasion
   > Those astrocyte (AS)-unconnected, invasive GBCs (“unconnectedTUM/AC”) transitioned over time and infiltrated into other regions, largely consisting of tumor cell and AS-connected, stable GBCs (“connectedTUM/AC”). This … GBMs was mostly located in the tumor rim (Figure 1C), was easily transferred to distant regions in the brain environment, and normally formed synapses with
04266|How Birds Fly
   > convinced our high school to give us academic credit for a self-directed independent study in ornithology, shorthand for early-morning birdwatching with octogenarians. Before school, we
04267|Top science stories of 2023
   > foods, and foods packed with sugars, salts and fats to increase desirability. Another more sustainable and healthier option to the world's current diet would be
04268|Beyond single-modality screening: toward an EEG–IoT dual-stream framework for early detection of mild cognitive impairment in community-dwelling older
   > than a longitudinal behavioral signal [4,5]. In community settings across Asia and other regions with aging populations, these structural barriers translate directly into missed diagnoses … clinically unacceptable uncertainty at the individual level [7]. Addressing this requires an external behavioral anchor, precisely what smart-home IoT provides.Smart-home passive sensing platforms deploy arrays
04269|Research activities at Hanoi National University of Education ‐ 70 years of development
   > and electrical-electronics, STEM Education, Teaching methods of Technology education - Courses: 2 undegraduate, master's and doctoral programs - Current number of undergraduate and postgraduate students: … etc. The diversity of an institution's research collaborations with other institutions in different locations of the world has been expanded significantly, including partners from Australia,
04270|ACNP 61st Annual Meeting: Keyword Index
   > [no abstract]
04271|Photovoltaics literature survey (No. 161)
   > MG, Silverman TJ, Johnston SW, et al. Light and elevated temperature induced degradation (LeTID) in a utility-scale photovoltaic system. IEEE Journal of Photovoltaics 2020; 10(4): … Engelhardt J, Sperber D, et al. Influencing light and elevated temperature induced degradation and surface-related degradation kinetics in float-zone silicon by varying the initial sample state. IEEE Journal
04272|5th International Renal Pathology Conference in Zagreb, Croatia: Meeting Report
   > kidney disease of unknown origin (CKDu) or Mesoamerican nephropathy [26]. CKDu affects different regions of the world and is characterized by primary tubulointerstitial disease. The
04273|A scientific mission to save the sharks
   > identification in the dead material. "The problem is that processed fins have degraded DNA, preventing their identification with established protocols," Cardeñosa explains. "Genetic approaches to … the Hong Kong dried shark fin trade in 2014 and 2021. Bottom: Another bar chart shows the relative contribution of premium-value species of sharks in
04274|Biomarkers for complex post-traumatic stress disorder: translational and evolutionary perspectives
   > prairie voles, which exhibit monogamous behavior similar to that seen in humans in the wild, prolonged stress led to impaired pair bonding with female partners, … s variant) of the 5-HT transporter gene SLC6A4 was linked to a decrease in appeasement behavior with age (57).Neural correlates of subordinate social status have
04275|Passages 2022
   > group that was published in JCN (Ding et al., 2016), and provide another set of tools for visualization and interpretation of structures in the prenatal
04276|ACNP 59th Annual Meeting: Keyword Index
   > [no abstract]
04277|The Hanker Chiefs
   > or manipulate a fork or built a castle of LEGO.There are no external inputs that can result in a new pun or joke. All of … the chronological, from the metaphoric to the mundane, and we would take another step toward integrating our silly creations into some kind of quasi-logical storyline.At
04278|Urban economics for sustainable transitions: grand challenges in urban structure, the urban–rural gradient and city systems
   > distinct positions along the urban-rural gradient, with more limited access to agglomeration externalities and asymmetric exposure to the costs of sustainability transitions. How these dynamics … of how cities are internally organized and how they relate to one another within national and international systems, is not peripheral to the sustainability agenda:
04279|Data Resource Profile: Multimorbidity in Africa Digital Innovation, Visualisation and Application (MADIVA) research hub
   > longitudinal studies from the NUHDSS. Although all these nested studies were conducted independently at the respective sites at different time points, they all include biomarker
04280|New Guidelines and a focus on ischaemic heart disease, atrial fibrillation, innovative treatments of channelopathies
   > [no term] For the podcast associated with this article, please visit https://academic.oup.com/eurheartj/pages/Podcasts. This Focus Issue opens with the first President’s page by Prof. Thomas Lüscher entitled ‘From a group of friends to
04281|DTechCon Abstracts 2025
   > in both groups at baseline. During follow up visits, there was a decrease in the HbA1c levels in the study and control groups. The symptoms … painful DN were also similar in both groups at baseline. A significant decrease in symptoms of neuropathic pain was observed among the group of patients
04282|Conference Proceedings for the International Forum on Quality Cancer Care September 8 and 9, 2018
   > was helpful with financial concerns. Patients using Pathlight experienced a greater absolute decrease in median COST scores (3.5 vs 2.0 decrease). Relative to controls, a higher proportion would consider a cost discussion with … oncologist (33% vs 20%).Conclusion: Pathlight demonstrates high usability and preliminary effectiveness in decreasing financial distress, improving patients' knowledge of 
04283|Transplantation & Tissue Engineering
   > [no term] WITHDRAWN Area Deprivation and Its Financial Impact on Kidney and Liver Transplant Patients: A Nationwide Analysis Vina L Nguyen, BA, Ahmet Y Ciftci, BS, Muhammad Abdullah Arain, MD, Sophia Diaz,
04284|Meeting Abstracts: International Conference on Psychiatry and Neurorestoratology (ICPN) 2024
   > 300 left-behind youths who had used the AI psychological counselling robot, covering different regions and age groups. The research tools include ‘AI Dependency Scale’, ‘Social … left-behind adolescents significantly increased (r=0.71, P<0.01), while the social competence score significantly decreased (r=-0.52, P<0.05). In addition, adolescents with higher levels of dependence had significantly
04285|Pediatric Surgery
   > The graft was suspended within a pressurized chamber approximating peritoneal pressure. Alternating external magnetic fields were applied, resulting in magnet movement in two waves with … and operating room charge, high COI remained a significant factor associated with decreased odds of mortality (OR 0.97, CI 0.95-0.99, p = 0.004) when compared
04286|ASIP Variants in Livestock: It's Not Black and White.
   > promoter usage, copy-number variation and fusion transcripts. This demonstrates the value of cross-species approaches for interpreting ASIP functional variants and provides a framework for understanding
04287|The impact of climate change on plant distribution and niche dynamics over the past 250 years in Switzerland
   > analysis of changes in plant distribution spanning centuries. Most studies on plant distribution shifts focus on recent decades and rare species, especially along elevational gradients.
04288|A wild fish image dataset for individual re-identification and phenotyping
   > [no term] Computer vision can transform wildlife monitoring by automating phenotyping and individual identification. Achieving this, however, depends on access to large, well-curated image datasets that capture natural variation across individuals and
04289|Acumulación de masa seca en los diferentes órganos de la planta de arroz (Oryza sativa L.) y su relación con el llenado de los granos en la época poco
   > [no abstract]
04290|Automatic Grassland Degradation Estimation Using Deep Learning
   > Grassland degradation estimation is essential to prevent global land desertification and sandstorms. Typically, the … not publicly available. To this end, we build an original Automatic Grassland Degradation Estimation Dataset (AGDE-Dataset), with a large number of grassland images captured from
04291|Economic Impact on Sesame Production and Its Main Problem: Its Commercialization due to the Existence of Intermediaries
   > [no term] This article refers to the economic impact generated by sesame production in Mexico. The main producing states of this crop are: Sinaloa, Guerrero, Chiapas, Sonora, Michoac?n, Oaxaca and Jalisco, which
04292|Perception of Drought and Local Responses by Farmers: A Perspective from the Jucar River Basin, Spain
   > [no abstract]
04293|scTenifoldKnk: a machine learning workflow performing virtual knockout experiments on single-cell gene regulatory networks
   > [no abstract]
04294|The Role of Context in Prosocial Affect Recognition
   > evidence; and then evaluate models under increasingly expressive assumptions. A supervised ResNet-50 trained on face crops does not generalize, so we reformulate prosocial recognition as an inlier verification problem and train … dialog, learning a distribution from positive examples and rejecting non-prosocial behavior as out-of-distribution. Two approaches to face-only verification yield $40 \%$
04295|Analysis of Land Cover Classification and Pattern Using Remote Sensing and Spatial Statistical Method - Focusing on the DMZ Region in Gangwon-Do -
   > [no abstract]
04296|A combined method for vegetation classification based on visible bands from UAV images: A case study for invasive wild parsnip plants
   > [no term] Wild parsnip is an invasive plant that has serious health risks to humans due to the toxin in its sap. Monitoring its presence and spread has been challenging for conservation
04297|Carbon Management behind the Ambitious Pledge of Net Zero Carbon Emission—A Case Study of PepsiCo
   > [no term] Since the industrial revolution, greenhouse gas emissions caused by human activities have posed an unprecedented global challenge to social development and impact on the natural environment. With the growing awareness
04298|Learning and Aligning Cross-Domain Spectral Discrepancy Using a Hybrid Meta-Adversarial Projection Framework (HMAPF)
   > hard to train deep learning models and tend to be overfitting. Recently, cross-domain Few-Shot Learning (FSSL) has been proposed to handle this problem by applying knowledge in a well-labeled source domain to a target domain with few labeled samples. Joint Domain Adaptation With Weight Self-Learning (JDAWSL) method minimizes domain discrepancy by using domain … adaptive self learning of weights. I
04299|Comparative Anatomical Analysis of three Rumex L. Species (Polygonaceae): Stem and Leaf Cross-sections Study
   > [no term] Rumex species (Polygonaceae) have very similar morphological characteristics and are challenging to classify depending on the shape of fruits as a taxonomic key. Previous studies have proven the importance of
04300|Pilot Survey of Plants Found Along the Roadsides, Hedges and Waste Places of Gamdi Village, Anand, Gujarat
   > [no abstract]
04301|Climate change impact on Castanopsis sp. pl. endemic to Borneo and its conservation implications
   > [no abstract]
04302|Fuzzy –Random Forest Predictive Models for Improvement of Sugarcane Yield and Quality
   > data analytics, the study examines historical meteorological and agricultural data from four different regions: Erode, Tiruvallur, Villupuram and Chittoor. Significant regional differences are shown with
04303|Leveraging Artificial Intelligence Approaches for Smart Farming
   > These challenges include the scarcity of labeled and high-quality datasets, difficulties in generalizing AI models to diverse environmental conditions, and computational limitations in deploying AI-powered … settings. Furthermore, we discuss potential solutions to these issues, including data augmentation, domain adaptation, and model compression techniques, which aim to make deep learning models
04304|From Time-Series Prediction to System Modeling: A Dual-Attention Framework for Multi-Source Interaction in Soybean Futures Markets
   > interaction of heterogeneous sources, including trading behavior and news-driven sentiment. Ignoring such cross-domain interactions limits the ability of traditional models to capture systemic price dynamics.
04305|Automated patent classification for crop protection via domain adaptation
   > [no abstract]
04306|Assess the Impact of Climate Change on Agricultural Productivity Using GES DISC Data on Temperature, Precipitation, and Drought Indices
   > and accessibility. The designed workflow is reusable and can be applied to different regions, enhancing its utility for broader climate change impact assessments.
04307|WinoTS: Wavelet-based Self-Distillation for Time Series Models
   > signal dynamics. Across extensive evaluations, WinoTS outperforms state-of-the-art baselines in long-term forecasting, cross-domain zero-shot transfer, and unsupervised anomaly detection. Notably, linear probing on frozen WinoTS
04308|Bumblebee Re-Identification Dataset
   > of pollinating insects [16] , [13] . In Germany, the insect biomass dropped by up to 76.7 % in some areas, including wild bees from
04309|Seeds at risk: How will a changing alpine climate affect regeneration from seeds in alpine areas?
   > [no abstract]
04310|Federated learning-based UAVs for the diagnosis of Plant Diseases
   > of different pests using federated learning-based UAVs. The designed scenarios comprise four different sites connected with a global model where different parameters for these sites
04311|Exploring phenotypic diversity and constructing a floral core collection of Ziziphus jujuba var. spinosa
   > [no term] Background Ziziphus jujuba var. spinosa is an ecologically valuable tree species. However, most investigations have concentrated on the leaves and fruits. There is insufficient focus on investigating the phenotypic diversity
04312|Assessment of domestic pig–bushpig (Potamochoerus larvatus) interactions through local knowledge in rural areas of Madagascar
   > study, we characterized the socio-ecological context of bushpig–domestic pig interactions in two different regions of western Madagascar. We conducted participatory mapping sessions and focus group
04313|GeNeX: Genetic Network eXperts Framework for Addressing Validation Overfitting
   > test time. This issue is further amplified in low-data regimes and under distribution shifts, where validation signals become unreliable. Although ensemble learning is widely used to improve robustness and generalization, most ensemble construction pipelines depend heavily on validation scores, leaving them vulnerable … GeNeX consistently outperforms state-of-the-art ensembles under limited-data a
04314|A Multivariate Statistical Approach for Water Quality Assessment of River Hindon, India
   > [no abstract]
04315|Climate change induced elevational range shifts of Himalayan tree species
   > keep pace with their shifting climate niche. How species differences in such distribution shifts depend on their elevational positions, elevation‐dependent warming rates, and other environmental … is poorly understood. Here, we analyzed for 137 Himalayan tree species how distribution shifts vary with elevational niche positions, environmental constraints, and their functional traits.
04316|SDIDM: An agricultural irrigation decision model based on Chain-of-Thought Prompts enhancement
   > reasoning process. Moreover, current approaches suffer from limited semantic guidance and weak domain adaptation mechanisms, which constrain the logical consistency and adaptability of large language … in diversified ways to enrich the semantic structure and improve task representation;(3) Domain Adaptation Optimization: we refine and expand reasoning steps to achieve fine-grained enhancement
04317|An Adaptive Enhancement Method for Low-Light Leaf Images Based on Multimodal Feature Fusion
   > Poor illumination in agricultural environments severely degrades leaf image quality, imposing a fundamental bottleneck on intelligent disease detection and precision agriculture. Existing low-light enhancement methods suffer from semantic information loss, insufficient cross-domain generalization, and color distortion when applied to leaf imagery. To address these challenges, … Image Fusion, annot
04318|15 th Annual MBGSO Research Symposium
   > [no abstract]
04319|Unexpected westward range shifts in European forest plants link to nitrogen deposition
   > change, atmospheric deposition (nitrogen and sulfur), and forest canopy dynamics. Surprisingly, westward distribution shifts were 2.6 times more likely than northward ones. Not climate change,
04320|Heterogeneity and Robustness in Plant Morphogenesis: From Cells to Organs.
   > [no term] Development is remarkably reproducible, producing organs with the same size, shape, and function repeatedly from individual to individual. For example, every flower on the Antirrhinum stalk has the same snapping
04321|Very Deep Residual Networks with MaxOut for Plant Identification in the Wild
   > [no abstract]
04322|Supervised Neural Style Transfer as an Augmentation Technique for Facial Landmark Detection
   > is a technique that applies the visual characteristics of one image to another while preserving the structural content. Traditionally used for artistic transformations, NST has more recently been adopted in new fields, such as domain adaptation and data augmentation. This study explores a novel application of the
04323|Spatio-Temporal Analysis of Vegetation Loss, Land Surface Temperature Changes, and Their Relationship with Vegetation Indices in Zhenjiang, China Usin
   > [no abstract]
04324|Domain Adaptation for Agricultural Image Recognition and Segmentation Using Category Maps
   > This paper presents a data-expansion method for training of the transfer learning source domain. Using expanding images generated from weights on a category map as … models and our previously reported method. Moreover, we obtained the result of domain adaptation between actual images and synthetic images using weights obtained during transfer
04325|Visual Understanding in Semantic Segmentation of Soil Erosion Sites in Swiss Alpine Grasslands
   > results. In addition, the parameter settings of the method cannot be easily transferred from one image to another.</p><p>To allow for large-scale semantic segmentation of erosion sites, we make use of … might be more time demanding, predicting segmentations for new images and previously unseen regions is usually fast. For this study, we train a U-Net with
04326|Open-World Hierarchical Perception: Taxonomic Abstraction over Class-Agnostic Proposals for the Safe Handling of Out-of-Vocabulary Road Objects
   > we report a feasibility study of three open-world signals (class-agnostic segmentation, appearance-based out-of-distribution scoring, monocular depth) that shows why no single 2D cue suffices and
04327|Real-time animal detection and prevention system for crop fields
   > [no abstract]
04328|The preference–performance relationship as a means of classifying parasitoids according to their specialization degree
   > predicts that highly suitable hosts will be preferred by ovipositing females. However, generalist parasitoids may not conform to this hypothesis if they attack a large … we tested the PPH relationship of three aphid parasitoids currently considered as generalist species (Aphelinus abdominalis, Aphidius ervi, Diaeretiella rapae). As expected, the three parasitoids
04329|BDHerbalPlants: augmented and curated herbal plants image dataset for classification
   > of herbal plants. It contains images of eight distinct herbal plants from different regions, including Dhaka and Tangail. The eight plants are Eclipta prostrata, Ocimum
04330|Color Image Segmentation Method and Its Application in Agriculture
   > [no abstract]
04331|Deep Learning Based Multi Class Recognition of Medicinal Plant Leaf Diseases
   > cross-validation. Performance was assessed using accuracy, precision, recall, and $F_{1}$-score under rigorous data partitioning. The custom CNN achieved $99 \%$ accuracy on the held-out test set and outperformed ResNet-50, VGG-16, and MobileNet-V2, demonstrating strong generalization while remaining efficient for mobile and web deployment. The results showed that
04332|Artificial vision models for the identification of Mediterranean flora: An analysis in four ecosystems
   > the performance of six popular object detection models on our dataset collected in the wild, comprising various plant species from four habitats: screes, dunes, grasslands,
04333|A Deep Learning Approach for Plant Disease Detection
   > as India, the global population is predicted to grow dramatically in the future years. Crops such as mango and sweet orange have a large economic
04334|Qualitative Analysis and Quality Evaluation of Cnidium monnieri Using UHPLC-ESI-Q-TOF/MS
   > [no abstract]
04335|Improved Estimation of Soil-to-Sugar Beet Ratio Using Deep Learning and Domain Adaptation for Precision Agriculture
   > [no abstract]
04336|Uncertainty-Guided Multi-Center Prototype Alignment for Cross-Domain Few-Shot Hyperspectral Image Classification
   > acquiring large-scale annotated datasets for newly emerging scenes and sensors remains challenging. Cross-domain few-shot hyperspectral image classification addresses this bottleneck by transferring knowledge from a labeled source domain to a sparsely annotated target domain. Existing prototype-based approaches commonly use a single-mean prototype per class, which … may fail to accurately characte
04337|Anatomical Alignment of Femoral Radiographs Enables Robust AI-Powered Detection of Incomplete Atypical Femoral Fractures
   > for these fractures often fail in real-world clinical settings due to the “domain shift” problem, where performance degrades when applied to new data sources. This study proposes a data-centric approach … various one-stage (YOLO) and two-stage (Faster R-CNN) object detection models. On the source domain data, the proposed alignment pipeline significantly improves the performance of the
04338|Popper and the Omics
   > proteins supports the discovery of protein interactions and alternative biomarkers (Winkler, 2015). Independently of the initial experimental design, data mining methods are extremely useful for
04339|Multiscale representation of very large environments in the hippocampus of flying bats
   > [no term] Coding for space in the mammalian brain Nearly all mammals navigate over large spatial scales in environments that span hundreds of meters to many kilometers. However, very little is known
04340|DroneGround: Open-Vocabulary Drone Payload Characterization Using Synthetic Data and Grounded Vision-Language Models
   > imaging conditions due to limited availability of annotated real-world datasets, and substantial distribution shifts encountered during deployment. Existing approaches formulate payload characterization as a closed-set object detection problem, limiting their ability to recognize previously unseen payloads and generalize beyond the training distribution. To address these challenges, we generate a 
04341|Scrutinising the cytoskeleton
   > respect and can demonstrate that density of microtubules increases while their alignment decreases in the bbp125 mutant. This is ascribed to changes in mechanical stress
04342|Implementing K-Nearest Neighbor to Classify Wild Plant Leaf as a Medicinal Plants
   > [no term] in leaf shape. Therefore, this study aimed to create a system to help increase public knowledge about wild plant leaves that also function as medicinal plants by the KNN method.
04343|Functional evaluation of variants of unknown significance in the BRCA2 gene identified in genetic testing
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Heterozygous germline BRCA2 mutations predispose to breast, ovarian, pancreatic and other types of cancer. The presence of a pathogenic mutation in patients or their family members warrants close surveillance
04344|In vivo promoter engineering in plants: Are we ready?
   > achieve predictable changes in gene expression using IPE at this point. In future years, data generated from high throughput techniques to investigate non coding genome
04345|Chemotaxonomy of domesticated grasses: a pathway to understanding the origins of agriculture
   > domesticated and wild grass species, classified using k-nearest neighbour classification coupled with leave-one-out cross validation. We demonstrate a 95 % classification success rate on training
04346|ICDAR 2026 Competition on Writer Identification and Pen Classification from Hand-Drawn Circles
   > unknown ones, and (2) cross-writer pen classification, evaluated across both seen and unseen writers. Participants were provided with a new, controlled dataset of 46,155 tightly … details the dataset, evaluates the winning methodologies, and analyzes the impact of out-of-distribution writers on model generalization and feature disentanglement. In this large-scale competition, CircleID establishes 
04347|Unsupervised Domain Adaptation with Temporal Prompts for Robust Crop Classification in Satellite Imagery
   > [no abstract]
04348|Evaluating Land Use Land Cover (LULC) and Urban Built-up Growth Using NDBI: A study of Itanagar Capital Region (ICR), Arunachal Pradesh, India
   > built-up growth using geo-spatial tools. Landsat 5, 8 and 9 images from different years have been utilised with a time span of 10 years from … for validating the supervised images. The result shows that there is a decrease in the area of dense forest, open forest, and agricultural land, while
04349|The iNaturalist Species Classification and Detection Dataset
   > [no term] Existing image classification datasets used in computer vision tend to have a uniform distribution of images across object categories. In contrast, the natural world is heavily imbalanced, as some species
04350|Neural Network Architecture and Feature Extraction in sEMG Signals: Implications for Exoskeletons Control
   > architectures, highlighting their trade-off between accuracy and inference time, as well as domain adaptation strategies (LOSO, transfer) for subject-independent generalization. Based on this synthesis, we propose design guidelines: window co-design and network
04351|USING A DRONE TO DETECT PLANT DISEASE PATHOGENS
   > [no term] Today, drones are already widely used in agriculture and forestry. Drones can help spray plants, take surface measurements, and estimate the damage caused by adverse weather conditions or wild animals.
04352|Correlation Analysis of Vegetation Drought and Influencing Factors and a Preliminary Prediction Model Based on Convolutional LSTM
   > set time series becoming longer, the effect of the model has a decreasing trend. The expansion of the data set does not necessarily improve the … elements of each region, and the prediction of the same model for different regions will show geographical variability.
04353|JSE IBC Special Issue on Frontiers in Plant Systematics and Evolution
   > [no abstract]
04354|A guild‐based framework for restoring plant diversity in reservoir shorelines through active plant introduction
   > plants is a common restoration strategy, existing approaches often lack applicability and transferability across river basins. To address this, we propose a guild‐based restoration framework … similar reservoirs in the upper Yangtze River. Furthermore, this framework enhances the transferability of restoration practices by offering a functionally driven approach to species selection
04355|AI‑enabled management information systems for economic resilience and organizational performance: Analytics, governance, cyber risk and decision autom
   > MIS impact, standardising governance metrics, integrating privacy‑preserving learning, robust decision intelligence under distribution shift, and human trust calibration.
04356|Deep Facial Attribute Detection in the Wild: From General to Specific
   > [no abstract]
04357|Maxent modeling for predicting the potential geographical distribution of two peony species under climate change.
   > evaluated the importance of environmental factors in shaping their distribution, and identified distribution shifts under climate change scenarios. The results showed that the moderate and … higher concentrations of emissions (RCP8.5), the suitable habitat range of P. delavayi decreased while P. rockii increased. Overall, our prediction showed that a shift in
04358|Targeted Manifold Manipulation Against Adversarial Attacks
   > Since our manifold manipulation is enforced only locally, we show that such out-of-distribution data can be easily detected by noting the absence of traps around
04359|A Survey of Deep Learning Methods for WTP Control and Monitoring
   > of our community. The water treatment process (WTP) may vary slightly at different locations, depending on the technology of the plant and the water it
04360|Need for shared internal mound conditions by fungus-growing Macrotermes does not predict their species distributions, in current or future climates
   > constructed by social species are engineered to create internal conditions buffered from external climatic extremes, to allow reproduction and/or food production. Nest-inhabiting eusocial Macrotermitinae (Blattodea: … correlate with similar variables, and whether this would reflect in expected species' distribution shifts with climate change. The primary variables explaining species’ distributions
04361|GraphDiffWeather: A Graph-Augmented Diffusion Transformer for Global Weather Forecasting
   > a graph structure for representing the spatial interactions and teleconnections across the different regions of the atmosphere. Next, these graph structure embeddings are processed through
04362|Clonal KEAP1 mutations with loss of heterozygosity share reduced immunotherapy efficacy and low immune cell infiltration in lung adenocarcinoma.
   > The impact of this classification on survival outcomes was tested in two independent cohorts of LUAD patients treated with immunotherapy (MSK/Rome N=237; DFCI N=461). Immune-related
04363|Enhancing Pharmaceutical Batch Processes Monitoring with Predictive LSTM-Based Framework
   > (MAD) to adaptively detect deviations, making it more resilient to outliers and distribution shifts. The LSTM-AE demonstrates superior performance in anomaly detection with respect to
04364|Hyperspectral Leaf Reflectance as Proxy for Photosynthetic Capacities: An Ensemble Approach Based on Multiple Machine Learning Algorithms
   > the individual regression techniques with increases in R2 of 0.1 (0.08) and decreases in RMSE by 4.1 (6.6) μmol m-2 s-1, equal to 8% (15%)
04365|A Sensor Agnostic Domain Generalization Framework for Leveraging Geospatial Foundation Models: Enhancing Semantic Segmentation via Synergistic Pseudo-
   > labeled data-challenged by annotation scarcity and variability across sensors, illumination, and geography. Domain adaptation offers a promising solution to improve model generalization. This paper introduces a domain generalization approach to leveraging emerging geospatial foundation models, by combining soft-alignment pseudolabeling
04366|Machine Learning to Estimate Surface Roughness from Satellite Images
   > different machine learning algorithms (Support Vector Regression (SVR), Gaussian Process Regression (GPR), Generalised Regression Neural Network (GRNN), Binary Decision Tree (BDT), Bragging Ensemble Learning, and … during 10-21 December 2019, we measured the surface soil roughness at 78 different locations using a mechanical pin-meter. The average value of the in-situ surface
04367|Smartphone-based soil color analysis and machine learning for free iron oxide prediction in subtropical B-horizon soils
   > [no abstract]
04368|WILDWATCH: Intelligent Animal Monitoring and Protection for Farmlands
   > [no term] Human-wild life conflict has a number of adverse effects including environmental damage, posing of health risks and the incurring of huge financial losses; such effects are still evident in the
04369|Cross-Species Plant Disease Detection: Utilizing Neural Style Transfer on Mango and Apple Leaf Images
   > for crops with substantial economic value such as apples and mangoes. In “Cross-Species Plant Disease Detection: Utilizing Neural Style Transfer on Mango and Apple Leaf
04370|Impact assessment of watershed interventions under low rainfall situations in semi-arid Karnataka
   > [no abstract]
04371|Model Selection of Hybrid Feature Fusion for Coffee Leaf Disease Classification
   > bias of locality, can extract image features that are closer to one another (local features), while the Swin Transformer is able to extract feature interactions … and timely diagnosis for effective management and control of the diseases in real-world conditions.
04372|A method for real-time classification of insect vectors of mosaic and brown streak disease in cassava plants for future implementation within a low-co
   > the spatial data, associated with the multispectral images being used to separate different regions of the insect, and subsequent spectral analysis of those sub-regions, that
04373|Assessment of Fault Location Methods for Electric Power Distribution Networks
   > impedance-based, knowledge-based and hybrid combination The power system faults were planted at different locations of the MATLAB simulated IEEE network, and the distribution substation transformer
04374|"A Comparative Evaluation of YOLOv8 and Detectron2 for Real-World Aerial Segmentation on a Resource-Constrained Dataset"
   > and memory usage (¡1.5 GB vs. ¿3.8 GB). It also demonstrated superior generalization with higher confidence and fewer false positives, while Detectron2 exhibited increased class confusion under domain shifts. Unlike prior UAV detection studies that rely on high-resource datasets, this
04375|Meta-Learning for Few-Shot Spectroscopic Regression under Distribution Shifts in Smart Agriculture
   > critical challenges: the high cost of acquiring labeled samples and the performance degradation caused by distribution shifts across different instruments, regions, or harvest seasons. In this work, we … highlight meta-learning as a more reliable strategy for low-shot recalibration under realistic distribution shifts.
04376|AdvDINO: Domain-Adversarial Self-Supervised Representation Learning for Spatial Proteomics
   > representations without manual annotations. However, the robustness of standard SSL methods to domain shift -- systematic differences across data sources -- remains uncertain, posing an … mIF data, AdvDINO is broadly applicable to other medical imaging domains, where domain shift is a common challenge.
04377|Mixture of Receptive Fields Fusion for Accurate Rice Panicle Segmentation and Yield Prediction in UAV-Based Remote Sensing
   > and +3.11%) and $F1$ -scores (+2.83% and +2.31%) with significantly reduced complexity. Cross-season validation on 610 varieties spanning 2024–2025 achieves R2 exceeding 0.826 for yield prediction, supporting MiRF’s generalization across diverse genotypes. Edge deployment experiments demonstrate its superiority in real-time processing.
04378|A Creative Computing Approach to Forecasting Yield Shock of Winter Wheat
   > used to provide valuable information and thus can be applied when analysing other regions, e.g., the UK.
04379|Testing the niche reduction hypothesis for a fossorial rodent (Geomys bursarius) experiencing agricultural intensification
   > (~1950s, pre‐agricultural intensification) and the contemporary era (post‐agricultural intensification) and assess model transferability. We evaluate shifts in environmental relationships, changes in limiting factors, and an overall decline in niche hypervolume. SDMs were nontransferable between the historic and contemporary eras. Environmental drivers of gopher distribution shifted from elevation
04380|PatchNet: A Simple Face Anti-Spoofing Framework via Fine-Grained Patch Recognition
   > systems from different presentation attacks. Previous works leverage auxiliary pixel-level supervision and domain generalization approaches to address unseen spoof types. However, the local characteristics of image captures, i.e., capturing devices … discriminative feature from local capture patterns. In addition, to further improve the generalization ability of the spoof feature, we propose the n
04381|Reliable Detection of Minute Targets in High-Resolution Aerial Imagery across Temporal Shifts
   > curate a significant UAV dataset for training and rigorously evaluate the model's generalization capabilities. Specifically, we validate performance across three distinct test sets acquired at … object detection models in agricultural contexts but also yields consistent performance despite domain shifts in image acquisition.
04382|A Data-Driven Approach to Soil Moisture Collection and Prediction
   > [no abstract]
04383|Effectiveness of DTM Derivatives for Object Detection Using Deep Learning
   > [no abstract]
04384|Smart Farming Monitoring Through Artificial Intelligence for Enhancement of Harvest Quality and Productivity
   > dynamically. This research aims to make dynamic measures and statistics gathered from different locations to be analysed and maintained by the A I and machine … highest possible productivity with the largest amount of nutrients and health while decreasing the costs. The research will use sensors, actuators, control units Raspberry P
04385|A Survey on Advancements in Smart Agriculture: Integrating Multi-Modal Data Fusion, Machine Learning, and Sustainable Practices for Precision Crop Man
   > It is indicative of the role of transfer learning in enhancing model generalization in different regions and crop types. In spite of great advancement, issues like processing
04386|Challenges in Using AI-Based Citizen-Generated Plant Observations as Forensic Evidence in Biodiversity Investigations
   > work of a dedicated group*1 within the TDWG community), the detection of out-of-distribution sources and uncertainties, and the verification of duplicates. Strategies to improve the
04387|Arabica coffee leaf images dataset for coffee leaf disease detection and classification
   > Image acquisition was done in Mutira coffee plantation in Kirinyaga county-Kenya under real-world conditions using a digital camera and with the help of a pathologist.
04388|Enhancing Breast Lesion Detection in Mammograms via Transfer Learning
   > on CBIS-DDSM (0.566 to 0.447) and VinDr-Mammo (0.59 to 0.5) due to domain shifts. EMBED yields a low mAP50 of 0.306 due to label inconsistencies, … models, preprocessing, and augmentation for mass detection while identifying calcification detection and domain adaptation as key areas for future investigation.
04389|Mysid (Crustacea: Mysidacea) Distribution in the Bolgoda Estuarine System and Lunawa Lagoon, Sri Lanka
   > [no term] Mysids are one of the most abundant and important fauna in estuarine hyperbenthic communities. They form important links in estuarine food chains and play a critical role in the cycling
04390|A Deep Convolutional Neural Network Approach to Rice Grain Purity Analysis
   > [no abstract]
04391|A remote sensing derived dataset of 100 million individual tree crowns for 1 the National Ecological Observatory Network 2
   > [no abstract]
04392|Climate change-driven distribution shifts of pigeonpea sterility mosaic disease in India: a MaxEnt modeling approach
   > [no term]  Climate change is affecting the regional patterns of plant diseases worldwide, including pigeonpea sterility mosaic disease (PPSMD). Its prevalence, severity, and potential spread are being progressively influenced by changes
04393|DALLMi: Domain Adaption for LLM-Based Multi-label Classifier
   > text associated with distinct domains and simultaneously several labels (classes). When encountering domain shifts, e.g., classifier of movie reviews from IMDb to Rotten Tomatoes, adapting … LLM-based multi-label classifier is challenging due to incomplete label sets at the target domain and daunting training overhead. The existing domain adaptation methods address either image multi-label classif
04394|Molecular mechanisms of potato (Solanum tuberosum L.) transcription factor StbZIP1 in regulating saline-alkaline stress response through enhanced anti
   > [no term] Saline-alkali stress severely impacts global crop productivity, while basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcription factors (TFs) are known regulators of abiotic stress responses, the specific mechanisms of StbZIP1 in potato saline-alkaline
04395|Bridging the gap from clinical to home ECG: quantifying and overcoming accuracy loss in AI-enabled single-lead ECG models
   > AI-enabled electrocardiogram (ECG) models trained on 12-lead recordings may underperform on home single-lead devices due to device and context domain shift. We trained Lead-I models using 676,192 ECGs from 246,874 patients and externally validated them in 219,231 ECGs from 65,338 patients. We evaluated two methodological … (NT-proBNP), hemoglobin, and estimated glomerular filtration rate]. Cross-h
04396|Zoonymic pragmaphytonyms and their functions
   > [no term] The purpose of the article is to determine the the semantic functions of tomato breeding nomenclature containing zoolexics (Del'fin/Dolphin, Sibirskij medved' / Siberian bear, Utinyj nos / Duck nose, Animal
04397|Ranunculacean flower terata: Records, a classification, and some clues about floral developmental genetics and evolution
   > [no abstract]
04398|Fruit Detection in the Wild: The Impact of Varying Conditions and Cultivar
   > between cropping environments. This creates a pressing need for models with greater generalisability. We explore the issue of generalisability by considering a fruit (sweet pepper) that is grown using different cultivar … We exploit these new datasets in a singular and combined (to promote generalisation) manner to evaluate sweet pepper (fruit) detection and classification in the wild. For evaluat
04399|Prediction of environmental indicators in the land leveling using artificial intelligence technique
   > [no abstract]
04400|NightApple-Dataset: Construction and Benchmarking of an Apple Detection Dataset for Low-Light Orchards
   > auxiliary lighting effects such as spatially non-uniform illumination and specular highlights. These degradations can cause domain shift and weaken geometric cues around fruit boundaries. To support end-toend detection
04401|Digital Fencing for Farms: Enhancing Object Detection through Multi-Dataset Integration
   > farm animals straying, and unauthorized human entry. Conventional object detection models, often trained on urban or context-specific datasets, frequently underperform in farm settings. To address
04402|MDANet: A Mamba-Driven Domain Adaptation Network for Cropland Change Detection
   > sustainability, holding significant application value in remote sensing image interpretation. However, prevalent domain shifts between bitemporal remote sensing images—caused by land cover phenological variations (e.g., … and multisource imaging disparities (e.g., sensor differences, illumination changes, and atmospheric interference)—severely degrade the detection accuracy and robustness of conve
04403|High-Resolution Visual Reasoning via Multi-Turn Grounding-Based Reinforcement Learning
   > multiple dialogue rounds, thereby promoting stable optimization. Extensive experiments demonstrate that, when trained on standard visual-question-short answering data without grounding annotations, MGPO effectively elicits stronger … to 5.4\% improvement on in-distribution MME-Realworld and 5.2\% improvement on the challenging out-of-distribution (OOD) V* Bench. Notably, MGPO post-training on Qwen
04404|A Hybrid Approach to Tiger Re-Identification
   > We also utilize several data transformations to improve the model's robustness and generalization across views and image quality variations. We establish the efficacy of our
04405|Deep Learning using DeiT Transformer and Simple ResNet-16 Architecture for Tuberculosis Classification
   > more diverse datasets and exploration of transfer learning methods to improve model generalization in real-world conditions.
04406|Climate change impacts on alpine ecosystems in the Daisetsuzan National Park in northern Japan
   > [no abstract]
04407|The effectiveness of GAN-based synthetic-to-real domain adaptation methods in training a wood ear mushroom detection model
   > [no abstract]
04408|Diagnosis of Apple Fruit Diseases in the Wild with Mask R-CNN
   > [no abstract]
04409|PL01.3.A Radiomic features and DNA methylation attributes in primary CNS lymphoma
   > profiles. We integrate both data modalities synergistically using machine learning-based prediction and cross-domain alignment. Ultimately, we validate the most relevant biological associations in tumor tissues … a cohort of 191 patients across 9 sites in Austria and an external validation site in South Korea, and use T1-weighted contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging
04410|Overexpression of the Transcription Factor CbbHLH96 Improves Alkali Stress Tolerance in Cinnamomun bodinieri
   > [no abstract]
04411|A Survey of Rare and Endangered Dicotyledonous Wild Plants
   > [no term] General background: Biodiversity loss is accelerating worldwide, with wild plants particularly vulnerable to climate change, urban expansion, and unsustainable exploitation. Specific background: In Iraq, especially Diyala Province, the scarcity of
04412|GrainSpace: A Large-scale Dataset for Fine-grained and Domain-adaptive Recognition of Cereal Grains
   > paper we formulate GAI as three ubiquitous computer vision tasks: fine-grained recognition, domain adaptation and out-of-distribution recognition. We present a large-scale and publicly available cereal grains dataset called
04413|Joint crop and tassel segmentation in the wild
   > [no abstract]
04414|Reconstructing herbivore diets: a multivariate statistical approach to interpreting amino acid nitrogen isotope values
   > [no abstract]
04415|From the individual to the landscape and back: time‐varying effects of climate and herbivory on tree sapling growth at distribution limits
   > [no abstract]
04416|Effects of soil salinity on sustainability of crop production in Gusau Local Government Area, Zamfara State, Nigeria
   > the collection of samples. Three soil samples were collected purposively at three different locations to produce eight composite soil samples. Soil parameters that were analyzed
04417|Development and assessment of indices to determine stream fish vulnerability to climate change and habitat alteration
   > [no abstract]
04418|It's the Geometry, Not the Model: Effective Rank and Subspace Alignment in Functional Connectivity Classification
   > through model design. We instead examine how FC geometry constrains classification and cross-site transfer. Across-subject FC variation concentrates in a small effective subspace, suggesting substantial … not. These results identify subspace orientation as a key factor in transfer degradation under controlled perturbations. This study offers a geometric diagnostic of FC generalization and suggests
04419|Lightweight Semantic Segmentation for Traversable Area Detection in Complex Agricultural Environments Using MobileNetV3-U-Net-Lite
   > models often suffer from large parameter counts $(>10 \mathrm{M})$, limited robustness to out-of-distribution (OOD) challenges such as mud, strong illumination variations, crop occlusion, and dynamic
04420|Garlic Bulb Decay and Soft Rot Caused by the Cross-Kingdom Pathogen Burkholderia gladioli.
   > [no term] In 2021, two Gram-negative bacterial strains were isolated from garlic (Allium sativum) bulbs showing decay and soft rot symptoms in central Iran. The bacterial strains were aggressively pathogenic on cactus,
04421|A Mobilenet-Driven Transfer Learning Model for Papaya Fruit Disease Classification
   > mobile and resource-constrained contexts, enabling farmers to undertake early disease detection in real-world conditions. In essence, this work proposes a realistic and scalable deep learning
04422|Effects of climate and forest development on habitat specialization and biodiversity in Central European mountain forests
   > elevational trends in habitat specialization and species richness. The altitudinal-niche-breadth hypothesis suggests decreasing specialization with elevation, which could lead to decreasing species richness and weaker differences in species richness and beta diversity among … Testing these predictions for bacteria, fungi, plants, arthropods, and vertebrates, we found decreasing habitat specializat
04423|Impact of artificial intelligence in healthcare
   > to account for the fact that different ethnic groups or residents of different regions may have unique physiologies and environmental factors that will influence the
04424|Flood Risk Assessment in Akoko-Edo and Environs South – South Nigeria Using GIS and Landsat Data
   > [no abstract]
04425|A Novel Approach on Improved Segmentation and Classification of Remote Sensing Images using AlexNet Compared over Linear Discriminant Analysis with Im
   > dataset was created by randomly selecting one image from each of five different locations out of 400 satellite images, converting them into bitmap format. A … compared to 95. 80% for LDA. The result of the academic self-esteem independent samples t-test is as follows: t(102) = 2. 34 two-tailed p =
04426|Crop and Fertilizer Recommendation System Applying Machine Learning Classifiers
   > be more efficient and practical and provide good results to farmers in different regions. The need of the project is an easy-to-use website that provides
04427|Transcriptome analysis to identify candidate genes associated with the yellow-leaf phenotype of a Cymbidium mutant generated by γ-irradiation
   > wild-type and mutant Cymbidium sp. Genes involved in the chlorophyll biosynthesis and degradation, as well as ion transport, were identified and assayed for their expression … two metal ion transporters, were down-regulated, and chlorophyllase 2, associated with chlorophyll degradation, was up-regulated. Together, these results suggest that alterations in chlorophyll metabolism and/or
04428|Image-Based Scene Recognition for Robot Navigation Considering Traversable Plants and Its Manual Annotation-Free Training
   > estimating pixel-wise traversability. The semantic segmentation branch is trained using an unsupervised domain adaptation method and the traversability estimation branch is trained with label images
04429|Backbone diversity beats text supervision: a systematic study of frozen multi-foundation model fusion for in-the-wild plant disease recognition
   > Automated plant disease recognition from field photographs remains challenging: models trained on laboratory datasets collapse on in-the-wild images, and the current state of
04430|Detect, Augment, Compose, and Adapt: Four Steps for Unsupervised Domain Adaptation in Object Detection
   > Unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) plays a crucial role in object detection when adapting a source-trained detector to a target domain without annotated data. In this paper, we propose a novel and … harness self-supervised learning to mitigate the lack of ground truth in the target domain. Our method consists of the following steps: (1) identify the region
04431|LUD-YOLO: An Efficient and Balanced Object Detection Model for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
   > On UAVDT, LUD-YOLO achieves an mAP@0.5 of 68.2%, providing supplementary evidence of cross-dataset applicability on another UAV detection benchmark. The parameter count of LUD-YOLO-n increases by only 7.7%,
04432|FSB-Net: Frequency-spatial-boundary interactive network for remote sensing semantic segmentation
   > Attention (FSIA) module explicitly leverages frequency-domain cues via adaptive frequency decomposition and cross-domain attention, improving robustness to heterogeneous textures and repetitive patterns. Second, a Bidirectional … and Potsdam, respectively, and 67.08% mIoU on LoveDA, indicating strong accuracy and generalization under diverse land-cover scenes.
04433|Climate-Related Distribution Shifts of Migratory Songbirds and Sciurids in the White Mountain National Forest
   > Climate change has been linked to distribution shifts and population declines of numerous animal and plant species, particularly in … warm spring temperatures, through upslope distribution expansion, downslope distribution contraction, or total distribution shift upslope. In contrast, we found a majority of high-elevation bird species
04434|Research on the Diagnosis of Abnormal Sound Defects in Automobile Engines Based on Fusion of Multi-Modal Images and Audio
   > between cross-modal features and often entail excessive model complexity, hindering deployment on resource-constrained on-board edge devices. To resolve these limitations, this study proposes a Physical … 0.8 ms per sample (including preprocessing, feature extraction, and classification). Cross-engine and cross-domain validation on a 2.0T diesel engine small-sample dataset and the open-source SEMF
04435|Marasmodes (Asteraceae, Anthemideae), the most threatened plant genus of the Cape Floristic Region, South Africa: Conservation and taxonomy
   > [no term] Abstract We confirm Marasmodes to be the Cape Floristic Region and South Africa's most threatened plant genus, classifying ten, of the thirteen species recognised here, as Critically Endangered (of which
04436|AqUavplant Dataset: A High-Resolution Aquatic Plant Classification and Segmentation Image Dataset Using UAV
   > × 2160px, 4K) images of 31 aquatic plant species collected from nine different sites in Bangladesh. The DJI Mavic 3 Pro triple-camera professional drone is
04437|Is Mau Forest Changing into an Open Canopy Ecosystem? Effects of Anthropogenic Forest Disturbances on the Population Structure of Zanthoxylum gilletii
   > [no term] Studies were carried out to understand the effects of anthropogenic forest disturbances on the population structure and stability of Zanthoxylum gilletii (De Wild) in South West Mau (SWM) natural forest
04438|Animal Detection and Recognition Using the ZooSnap Image Collection
   > [no term] In recent years, machine learning methods, particularly deep learning, have demonstrated the feasibility of recognizing individual animals. However, collecting images of wild animals is labor-intensive, and extracting facial data is
04439|Integrating Spectral Attention and Multimodal Embeddings for Enhanced Winter Cereals Mapping
   > Reliable crop-type mapping in heterogeneous agricultural landscapes remains challenging, particularly when models trained on one region are transferred to another. This study proposes an integrated framework that combines hyperspectral band selection with … bands. Three classifiers-SVM, Random Forest, and CatBoost-were evaluated under a nested K-means spatial cross-validation scheme and tested on 
04440|A CNN-based biological image processing and multimedia framework for rice grain purity analysis using enhanced mobile imaging
   > and chromatic features are enhanced and learned directly from images captured under real-world conditions. A dataset comprising 46,575 rice grain images across five commonly traded … Image enhancement and background augmentation techniques were applied to improve robustness and generalization. A MobileNetV2-based CNN achieved a peak classification accuracy of 98% under optimized
04441|Assessing the replicability of spatial gene expression using atlas data from the adult mouse brain
   > to circuits generating behavior. However, as with any type of expression data, cross-dataset benchmarking of spatial data is a crucial first step. Here, we assess … benchmark the Allen Institute’s whole-brain, whole-transcriptome spatial expression dataset with a second independent dataset that similarly spans the whole brain and transcriptome. We use regularized
04442|Chronology of ancient Dongxiang wild rice (Oryza rufipogon Griff.), and the morphologies of grains, double-peaked phytoliths, and starch, in the middl
   > [no abstract]
04443|I ER BASED ON BACKSCATTERING COE F FICIENT FOR MONITORING THE CROP GROWTH ANALYSIS USING MULTI-TEM P ORAL IMAGES OF SPACE-BORNE SYNTHETIC APERTURE RAD
   > [no abstract]
04444|Abstract 7388: Deep learning-implemented molecular signature identification in vascular malignancies
   > hematomas as benign controls obtained from client-owned dogs. ResNet-50 and AlexNet were trained on the images, and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC)
04445|A Systematic Evaluation of Out-of-Distribution Generalization in Crop Yield Prediction
   > [no abstract]
04446|System Design and Scenario Step 1 : Expert Launches a Crowd Investigation
   > [no abstract]
04447|Detection of Wild Oats based on Support Vector Machine Algorithms
   > Wild Oat degrades the quality and yield of wheat plants. Machine learning technique is used
04448|An AI-Driven Drone Imaging Framework for Precision Corn Disease Detection and Field Analytics
   > [no term] Early detection of corn diseases is critical for improving crop productivity and reducing yield losses. This study presents AgriDroneScan, a machine learning-based framework that integrates drone-acquired RGB imagery with a
04449|Hybrid nowcasting for solar power plants using satellite-data and Numerical Weather Predictions for (Deep) Machine Learning methods
   > (Long Short Term Memory Network - LSTM). It has been tested over different sites corresponding to different satellite spatial resolution, weather conditions and climate regions.
04450|Using waste to supply steam for industry transition: Selection of target industries through economic evaluation and statistical analysis
   > be used to explore the potential of adopting the developed methodology for other regions and industries and for identification of waste treatment plants that could
04451|Generating synthetic electronic health record data: a methodological scoping review with benchmarking on phenotype data and open-source software
   > classified into five categories. Seven open-source methods covering all categories are selected, trained on MIMIC-III, and evaluated on MIMIC-III or MIMIC-IV for transportability considerations. Among
04452|THE FOREST VEGETATION OF THE CHERNIHIV POLESIE LOESS “ISLANDS”
   > [no term] The purpose of the study. To find out the distribution, syntaxonomic composition and peculiarities of the Chernihiv Polesie loess ”islands” forest vegetation. Methodology. The materials were collected during field research
04453|Spatio-Spectral-Temporal Ensemble Learning with Post-Inference Reliability Calibration for Rice Crop Disease Detection
   > automated crop disease detection remains challenging under real-world field conditions. Models frequently degrade under field conditions because they ignore spatial pathogen propagation, lack temporal disease … limitations, this paper proposes a SpatioSpectral-Temporal (SST) Fusion Ensemble that integrates three independently trained sub-networks: a 1D-CNN for extracting vegetation-index histogram
04454|Improving the Robustness of a Convolutional Neural Network with Out-of-Distribution Data Fine-Tuning and Image Preprocessing
   > Deep convolutional neural networks trained on readily available datasets are often susceptible to decreases in performance when executing tasks on new data from a different domain. Making models generalize well on data in a new domain is the task of domain adaptation. Recently, a simple method, known as Out-of-Distribution Image Detector for Neural Networks (ODIN), was proposed for identifying out
04455|Burden and inequalities of chronic kidney disease attributable to diet globally, regionally and temporally, 1990–2021
   > a substantial role in the burden of CKD, with notable variations across different regions. It is imperative to implement enhanced dietary guidelines, with particular attention
04456|DirPA: Addressing Prior Shift in Imbalanced Few-shot Crop-type Classification
   > a disconnect from the long-tailed distributions observed in nature, leading to a distribution shift that undermines the model's ability to generalize to real-world agricultural tasks. We previously introduced Dirichlet Prior Augmentation (DirPA; Reuss
04457|The Leading Edge Matters Too: Fitness and the Expression of Adaptive Differentiation Are Greatest at the High‐Elevation Edge of a Species' Range
   > ecological responses to climate change. In montane environments, warming may drive species distribution shifts, yet the adaptive potential of populations at leading and rear edges
04458|Benchmarking person re-identification datasets and approaches for practical real-world implementations
   > within a network of security cameras is likely to face an important domain shift, thus resulting in decreased performance. Indeed, while most public datasets were collected in a limited geographic
04459|A subgroup 16SrIII-J phytoplasma associated with Aegiphila verticillata, a typical wild plant of Brazilian savanna region, exhibiting witches’ broom s
   > [no abstract]
04460|Trends in abundance of wintering waterbirds relative to rainfall patterns at a central California estuary
   > [no abstract]
04461|Post-Hoc Aggregation as a Competitive Alternative to Model-Centric Pipelines: NEUON Submission to PlantCLEF 2025
   > [no abstract]
04462|Action-Conditioned Chronos-2 Hybrid for Sample-Efficient MPC Dynamics Modeling: Industrial SO2 Validation
   > convert pretrained Chronos-2 into an action-conditioned dynamics model. Chronos-2 Hybrid combines low-rank target-domain adaptation, separate process-history and future-decision pathways, and gated residual fusion. Removing future-decision conditioning degraded action-response fidelity in all ten Quadrotor seeds. In bidirectional transfer between two … showed the same low-budget pattern under long
04463|Radicle emergence could overestimate the prediction of seed longevity in wild plants
   > [no term]  Seed longevity influences the success of ex situ storage and preservation of plant genetic diversity and is thus a critical factor in conservation efforts. Rapid seed ageing experiments at
04464|A Stability-Driven Framework for Automated Operational Crop Mapping Using Optical and Radar Satellite Image Time Series
   > Operational crop mapping requires classifiers capable of robust generalization across years. While feature importance is routinely used for model optimization, its … Portfolio maintained consistent high accuracy (87.4% accuracy, 87.2% F1-score) with minimal performance degradation during temporal transfer, while models based on volatile top features exhibited significant drops. Entropy
04465|A region-specific multi-task data-driven framework for deciphering and mitigating indirect carbon emissions in wastewater treatment plants.
   > and mitigation in WWTPs, which could be extended to support and assist other regions as well.
04466|Characterisation of Alternaria radicina isolates and assessment of resistance in carrot (Daucus carota L.).
   > [no term] Alternaria radicina is a fungal pathogen that causes the black rot disease of carrot. Four Alternaria spp. isolates associated with black rot symptoms collected from carrot (Daucus carota) and parsley
04467|Improving Generalization of Potato Leaf Disease Classification via Multi-Domain Training and Explainable EfficientNet
   > disease classification models often perform well on controlled datasets, however their effectiveness decreases when applied in real agricultural environments due to domain shift and limited data diversity, while interpretability remains limited. This study proposes … a better balance between accuracy and efficiency. Domain-wise evaluation further confirms improved generalization under real-field c
04468|Multi-Architecture Deep Learning Framework for Plant Disease Detection and Classification in Smart Agriculture
   > has been built employing a good amount of plant leaf images from different regions. The dataset features with very rich interclass and intraclass variations along … trained model over various parameters validated through five-fold cross-validation as well as unseen data is pretty impressive. With an average cross-validation accuracy of 94 percent
04469|Image Classification of Edible Wild Plants in the Philippines using Deep Convolutional Neural Network on Mobile Platform
   > in the Philippines, and their recognition is a key skill for survival in the wild. In this study, we propose a mobile platform for image … various edible wild plants. The dataset was preprocessed and augmented for better generalization. We then trained a CNN model using transfer learning techniques on a
04470|European glacial relict snails and plants: environmental context of their modern refugial occurrence in southern Siberia
   > [no abstract]
04471|Silage Maize Identification Using a Temporal Difference-Based Model with Sentinel-2 Data: Insights from a Harvest-Based and Temporally Transferable Ap
   > maize and grain maize. When applied to multi-year data, TempDiff-SMID demonstrated strong temporal transferability, achieving overall accuracies of 0.8621 (2022) and 0.8816 (2021), thereby confirming … for agricultural and livestock management systems. Its ability to rapidly adapt to new regions or years underscores its significance in supporting precision agriculture and sustainable
04472|Agriculture Product Marketing Data Analysis using Machine Learning
   > these challenges it is necessary to analyze the customer’s purchase data from different regions/locations of the state/country. In this proposed work, it is intended to
04473|Augmenting The Weather: A Hybrid Counterfactual-SMOTE Algorithm for Improving Crop Growth Prediction When Climate Changes
   > learning methods that work from historical data-distributions, are not good at handling out-of-distribution, outlier events. In this paper, we propose a novel data augmentation method,
04474|Prediction of Human Animal Conflict Through Machine Learning Based HAR Algorithm
   > used to improve action classification utilizing depth-based input. Furthermore, newline misclassification is decreased by using the Kernel-based Extreme Learning Machine (KELM) classifier.
04475|Rice Plant Disease Identification Using YOLOv8s with C2f-CBAM Backbone and Multi-Scale Attention
   > significantly enhances detection consistency and classification accuracy for rice leaf diseases under real-world conditions.
04476|WeedsGalore: A Multispectral and Multitemporal UAV-Based Dataset for Crop and Weed Segmentation in Agricultural Maize Fields
   > systems. However, learning-based approaches require annotated data and show a lack of generalization to aerial imaging for different crops. We present a novel dataset for … quantify prediction uncertainty, improve model calibration, and demonstrate the approach's applicability to out-of-distribution data. The results show the effectiveness of the two additional bands compared to RGB only, and bett
04477|Expert Knowledge Transfer from CAE Models to CNN Models Using Enhanced Adversarial Domain Adaptation
   > [no term] It is a common belief that convolutional neural networks (CNN) are incapable of acquiring knowledge from domain experts for fault detection and diagnosis. To address the challenge, this paper proposes
04478|D2FNet: A Lightweight Dual-Driven Texture–Semantic Fusion Network for Fine-Grained Real-Time UAV Weed–Crop Detection
   > budgets, rather than pursuing the smallest absolute model size, and shows promising cross-dataset robustness on the evaluated benchmarks.
04479|R-FENet: A Region-based Facial Expression Recognition Method Inspired by Semantic Information of Action Units
   > proposed R-FENet is validated on two public datasets of facial expression captured in the wild: AffectNet and SFEW. Experiments show that the proposed method achieves
04480|In-N-Out: Pre-Training and Self-Training using Auxiliary Information for Out-of-Distribution Robustness
   > using auxiliary information as input features improves in-distribution error but can hurt out-of-distribution (OOD) error; while (ii) using auxiliary information as outputs of auxiliary tasks
04481|Dual phenotypes in recurrent astrocytoma, IDH-mutant; coexistence of IDH-mutant and IDH-wildtype components: a case report with genetic and epigenetic
   > [no term] Mutations in the isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) gene are recognized as the key drivers in the oncogenesis of astrocytoma and oligodendroglioma. However, the significance of IDH mutation in tumor maintenance and
04482|Ecosystem services and energy evaluation of Mediterranean sheep and mixed sheep-crop farming systems
   > [no abstract]
04483|Development of a Novel Deep Transfer Learning Framework to Characterize Inter- and Intra-Tumor Heterogeneity in Myeloma Patients
   > comparisons between scRNA-seq and patient-level data. To address this issue, we utilized domain adaptation, a specific transfer learning approach, to combine scRNA-seq profiles and patient-level
04484|The Behaviour of a Soil Conditioner in Soil
   > [no abstract]
04485|Assessment of Resilience to Drought of Rural Communities in Iran
   > against drought, determining the cause of reduction or increase of resilience in different regions. It also focuses on strategies for increasing resilience of rural communities
04486|IPSC-Derived Neurons Harboring a Known Epilepsy Mutation Display Known and Novel Electrophysiological Phenotypes
   > [no abstract]
04487|Climate-change impacts on bamboo distribution and giant panda habitat in Qionglai mountains
   > [no abstract]
04488|Water Quality Assessment for Drinking and Irrigation Purposes in Mahananda River Basin of Bangladesh
   > [no abstract]
04489|The realised velocity of climate change reveals remarkable idiosyncrasy of species’ distributional shifts
   > [no term] To date, our understanding of how species have shifted in response to recent climate warming has been based on a few studies with a limited number of species. Here we
04490|Whole genome sequencing approach to assess homologous recombination deficiency in a pan-cancer cohort
   > [no term] Homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) impacts cancer treatment strategies, particularly effective utilization of PARP inhibitors. However, the variability of different HRD assays has hampered the selection of oncology patients who may
04491|Modeling the influence of production and storage conditions on the blueberry quality
   > [no abstract]
04492|A Cross-Domain Optimization Framework for Wastewater Aeration Coupling Transfer Learning and Physics-Informed Constraints
   > to construct high-precision surrogate models. Conventional cross-plant model deployments face severe data distribution shifts, and standard multi-objective optimization algorithms are prone to generating non-physical extrapolation … data barriers, this study proposes an intelligent aeration decision-making framework that integrates cross-domain transfer learning with physics-informed constraints. 
04493|To the top or into the dark? Relationships between elevational and canopy cover distribution shifts in mountain forests
   > shifts in canopy distribution and initial distribution characteristics explain variation in elevational distribution shifts. Across all taxa, the mean shift in elevational distribution peak was … m (i.e. upslope). Species' baseline distribution peaks were strong predictors of elevational distribution shifts with stronger upslope shifts in low‐elevation and open‐forest species. Even though we obser
04494|Fully Convolutional Neural Networks for Large Scale Cropland Mapping with Historical Label Dataset
   > production and food security. In this work we developed a strategy of temporal transfer with fully convolutional neural networks for cropland mapping using high resolution
04495|Hierarchical Graph Convolutional Networks for Autism Detection Using Multi-Modal Neuroimaging
   > ABIDE dataset (N=1,112), structural MRI achieves 74.12% accuracy within sites, with a cross-site generalization gap of 13.79%. Digital phenotyping is shown to perform well, with tablet
04496|Freshwater feeding by adult chum salmon Oncorhynchus keta in the Mackenzie River, Northwest Territories
   > [no term]  As distributional shifts of marine species into the Arctic become more frequent, these range-expanding individuals may exhibit unique traits that facilitate survival and establishment in new places. In the
04497|Dual-Margin Embedding for Fine-Grained Long-Tailed Plant Taxonomy
   > recognition and long-tailed learning in isolation. However, additional challenges such as spatiotemporal domain shift, hierarchical taxonomic structure, and previously unseen taxa often co-occur in real-world deployment, leading to brittle performance under open-world
04498|Multi-Temporal UAV Imagery Feature Fusion for Paddy Yield Prediction in Tropical Smallholder Farms: Integrating RGB Color, Texture, and NDVI Indicator
   > Forest Tree SHAP (Spearman rank correlation rho = 0.183, p = 0.1859). Leave-One-Block-Out (LOBO) spatial cross-validation was implemented, revealing a drop in R2 (best RF R<inline-formula> <tex-math … monitoring windows in tropical smallholder agriculture, while underscoring the challenges of spatial generalizability.
04499|You Are What You Prompt: Prompt Quality, Domain Shift, and Uncertainty in Agrifood Vision-Language Models
   > addresses this by weighting prompts by discriminative signal, yet its behavior under domain shift remains unexplored. We evaluate ZPE in the agrifood domain using CLIP … across four datasets and four prompt pools, spanning in-distribution (ID) food and out-of-distribution agricultural benchmarks. ZPE provides limited benefit under ID conditions but substantially improves performance and calibratio
04500|MDCA Plate: A Two Stage License Plate Recognition System with Channel Attention and Multi-Dilation Features
   > 99.87. Training directly on the challenge domain yields 73.87 on challenge, highlighting domain shift rather than capacity as the principal bottleneck.
04501|Facial Expression Recognition Method Based on SpResNet-ViT
   > using the global self-attention mechanism of the Vision Transformer. Our SpResNet-ViT is tested on three publicly available datasets, CK+, FERPlus and RAF-DB, and 98.6%, 88.1%
04502|Deep Spatio-Temporal Learning for Early and Precise Crop Disease Detection using UAV and Satellite Fusion
   > detection latency compared with state-of-the-art UAV-only methods. Other than cotton, experiments on cross-crop transfer of maize rust and wheat yellow rust affirm the versatility of
04503|CART model to classify the drought status of diverse tomato genotypes by VPD, air temperature, and leaf–air temperature difference
   > [no term] Regular water management is crucial for the cultivation of tomato ( Solanum lycopersicum L.). Inadequate irrigation leads to water stress and a reduction in tomato yield and quality. Therefore, it
04504|Evaluating Lightweight CNNs for Plant Disease Detection under Domain Shift: An Explainable Artificial Intelligence Perspective
   > achieving high accuracy on controlled datasets such as PlantVillage, their reliability in real-world conditions remains uncertain. This gap was investigated by contrasting MobileNetV3-Large and EfficientNetV2-B0, … training because its images were standardized and relatively clean, while performance was tested on PlantDoc, which has complex backgrounds and is less clean, to test
04505|Analisis Usahatani Salak dan Pengaruhnya Terhadap Distribusi Pendapatan Petani di Kabupaten Magelang
   > [no term] Factors such as operational costs, income, family contributions, and income distribution among salak farmers in Magelang Regency are the focus of this study. Based on an annual production of 597,283
04506|Morphological profiling in human neural progenitor cells classifies hits in a pilot drug screen for Alzheimer’s disease
   > been repeatedly linked to variants in SORL1, particularly those conferring loss or decreased expression of SORLA, and lower SORL1 levels are observed in post-mortem brain
04507|Can Deep Clinical Models Handle Real-World Domain Shifts?
   > the training datasets. This can be limiting when models are deployed in new environments, particularly when there are systematic domain shifts not known a priori. In this paper, we formalize these challenges by emulating a large class of domain shifts that can occur in clinical settings, and argue that evaluating the … building challenging scenarios, based on analysis of \textit{disease landscapes
04508|Deep Learning for Plant Disease Detection: Trends and Challenges
   > models demonstrate high accuracy in controlled settings, their performance often diminishes under real-world conditions due to factors such as data imbalance, limited dataset diversity, and
04509|PATH-13. IMAGE-BASED PHENOTYPING OF GLIOMAS FOR CLINICAL USE
   > that are predictive of their WSI-level label. Next, a second UA-CNN was trained on the relevant subset of tiles determined from the screening stage. For
04510|PDAOD: An Unsupervised Domain Adaptation Method for Orchard Apple
   > Traditional unsupervised domain adaptation methods are limited in agricultural object detection due to small target … a flexible manner. By utilizing point confidence matrix alignment to achieve precise domain adaptation, experiments show that PDAOD-Net achieves superior performance on apple orchard datasets,
04511|DEEP METRIC LEARNING FOR FEW-SHOT PLANT DISEASES IMAGE CLASSIFICATION.
   > several limitations. First, it fails to recognize or adapt to images of unseen categories, making it unsuitable for real-world applications where new categories frequently emerge … conditions and challenging settings, making a well-trained classification model ineffective when handling out-of-distribution (OOD) data. Few-shot learning comes into play, where few-shot learning models can adapt to un
04512|Small unmanned aerial system development and applications in precision agriculture and natural resource management
   > [no term] Advances in small Unmanned Aerial Systems (sUAS) are carving a new paradigm in remote sensing sensor development, integration, data processing, and exploitation. Led by the rapid development in navigation sensors
04513|Adversarial Visual Domain Adaptation with Bioinspired Optimization: A Translational Framework for Rice Leaf Pathology
   > [no term] This study introduces an improved CycleGAN-based framework for simulating rice leaf disease symptoms, specifically Brown Spot disease on a given healthy rice leaf. The methodology proposed integrates Ant Colony Optimization
04514|A2: Smaller Self-Supervised ViTs Localize Better than Larger Ones
   > backbone-matched loss-level methods like DFR, and outperforms end-to-end attention training under stronger distribution shifts.
04515|Segment Anything Model Combined with Multi-Scale Segmentation for Extracting Complex Cultivated Land Parcels in High-Resolution Remote Sensing Images
   > the SAM unsupervised segmentation combined with the multi-scale segmentation method demonstrates strong cross-region and cross-data source transferability and effectiveness for extracting complex cultivated land parcels across large areas.
04516|DivShift: Exploring Domain-Specific Distribution Shift in Volunteer-Collected Biodiversity Datasets
   > [no abstract]
04517|A Metadata Driven Approach to Quantify and Overcome Data Fragmentation in Crop Models
   > are scattered across multiple portals and diversified formats, thus leading to poor generalisation in robust agricultural machine learning models in India. Without a unified data … of such integration, we performed a controlled evaluation comparing identical XGBoost models trained on isolated single-domain sources (e.g., climateonly) with crop as a baseline against those trained on integrated data
04518|Environmental Toxicity Assessment: state of the art and future directions in a world of arising threats
   > [no abstract]
04519|Towards Objects Detection Using Convolutional Neural Network from Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Imagery
   > is achieved through an automatic setting of a bounding box on the different regions of interest within the image, with an average accuracy of 95.33
04520|Experimental Investigation on Furnace Burner Design for Thermal Power Plant Using CFD
   > [no abstract]
04521|Leveraging Big Data Analytics for Enhancing Corn, Tomato, and Pepper Crop Disease Detection in Ghana
   > food security and agricultural sustainability, not only in Ghana but also in other regions facing similar challenges.
04522|Monocular Expressive Body Regression through Body-Driven Attention
   > [no term] To understand how people look, interact, or perform tasks, we need to quickly and accurately capture their 3D body, face, and hands together from an RGB image. Most existing methods
04523|DETERMINING SPECTRAL REFLECTANCE COEFFICIENTS FROM HYPERSPECTRAL IMAGES OBTAINED FROM LOW ALTITUDES
   > [no term] Remote Sensing plays very important role in many different study fields, like hydrology, crop management, environmental and ecosystem studies. For all mentioned areas of interest different remote sensing and image
04524|Driver Glance Classification In-the-wild: Towards Generalization Across Domains and Subjects
   > [no term] Distracted drivers are dangerous drivers. Equipping advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) with the ability to detect driver distraction can help prevent accidents and improve driver safety. In order to detect
04525|CNN and Transfer Learning Modeling for Jujube Spices Recognition
   > method obtains an outstanding 98.0% accuracy on a test dataset after being trained on photographs of jujube taken in and around Bangladesh. Our work contributes … our system by collecting a larger dataset of jujube images, exploring the generalizability of our system to other regions and countries, and investigating the potential for using our system to
04526|Diffusion Model as a Generalist Segmentation Learner
   > utilized for text-conditioned semantic and open-vocabulary segmentation, and this approach can be generalized to various downstream tasks to make a general-purpose diffusion segmentation framework. Concretely, we introduce DiGSeg (Diffusion Models as a Generalist Segmentation Learner), which repurposes a pretrained diffusion model into a unified segmentation … state-of-the-art performance on stand
04527|Comparison of the distribution and phenology of Arctic Mountain plants between the early 20th and 21st centuries
   > [no term] Arctic plants are adapted to climatic variability, but their long‐term responses to warming remain unclear. Responses may occur by range shifts, phenological adjustments in growth and reproduction, or both. Here,
04528|Karyology and Genome Size Analyses of Iranian Endemic Pimpinella (Apiaceae) Species
   > genome size of 17 populations of 16 different Pimpinella species collected from different locations in Iran were analyzed for inter-specific karyotypic and genome size variations.
04529|Mudra: A Visual Speech Recognition System Using CNN-LSTM Architecture
   > fully visual form of communication can help people communicate effectively with one another who are deaf or who have hearing challenges, or it can enable … second. We trained and tested this entire process using the Lip Reading in the Wild (LRW) dataset, which contains more than 500,000 video clips with
04530|Effect of data splitting scenarios on machine-learning-driven prediction of broccoli actual evapotranspiration under semi-arid condition
   > training to testing datasets and thus it is essential to assess how data partitioning scenarios influences ML models performance for prediction of variables efficiently. Therefore, in this study, we have developed and assessed nine data partitioning scenarios for predicting Broccoli evapotranspiration (ETc) utilizing eight machine learning algorithms.
04531|Multiscale Fusion at What Cost? Quantifying Efficiency-Accuracy Trade-offs in Hybrid Models
   > This study proposes an adaptive hybrid framework combining MobileNetV2, EfficientNetV2, and Transformers, trained on 76 classes across 22 crop diseases using Kaggle and field-sourced images. … achieved strong convergence (Training: 0.9957, validation: 0.9868) and 97.97% accuracy on 249 unseen field images. Final metrics (Accuracy: 0.992, AUC: 0.999998) surpassed standalone CNNs and
04532|How to Peel with a Knife: Aligning Fine-Grained Manipulation with Human Preference
   > a robust initial policy via force-aware data collection and imitation learning, enabling generalization across object variations; second, we refine the policy through preference-based finetuning using … with performance improving by up to 40% through preference-based finetuning. Remarkably, policies trained on a single produce category exhibit strong zero-shot generalization to unseen in-category 
04533|Exploring the Efficacy of Artificial Neural Networks in Climate Prediction: Societal and Environmental Implications in Tungurahua, Ecuador
   > and risk management. Furthermore, the neural network approach can be adapted to other regions with similar climatic conditions, opening avenues for future research and applications
04534|Sim-to-Real Fruit Detection Using Synthetic Data: Quantitative Evaluation and Embedded Deployment with Isaac Sim
   > datasets: an in-domain dataset with conditions matching the training data and a domain shift dataset containing real fruit and different background conditions. Results show that … close to real-only training while reducing the need for manual annotation. Under domain shift conditions, all models show performance degradation, with hybrid models providing improved robustness. The trained models were
04535|STUDIES ON MODELING AND MAPPING USING DEEP LEARNING IN ROOT GROWTH OF CULTIVARS
   > [no term] Advanced technologies in precision agriculture are applied to the study of root architecture, optimizing growth, productivity, and promoting more sustainable, efficient, and regenerative soil agriculture. In this sense, the objective
04536|PlantDoc: A Dataset for Visual Plant Disease Detection
   > and early plant disease detection. The lack of availability of sufficiently large-scale non-lab data set remains a major challenge for enabling vision based plant disease
04537|Animal Detection Based Smart Farming in Animal Repellent Using AI
   > [no term] The integration of AI and deep learning innovations in agribusiness has revolutionized accuracy farming, advertising inventive arrangements to different challenges. Agriculture plays a pivotal part in the economy, but animal
04538|Multitemporal multispectral drone imagery for water hyacinth mapping in Patancheru lake, Hyderabad, India
   > mapping. We compare spectral signature of clean and infested water for five different sites inside the lake. Multitemporal water quality samples of these sites were … maximisation (EM) clustering to create a segmentation map indicating WH, water and other regions.
04539|Cross-Domain Mixup for Parcel-Level Crop Mapping on a Multi-Year Sentinel-2 Dataset from Slovakia
   > Reliable crop-type mapping from satellite image time series is affected by distribution shifts across geographic regions, agricultural years, and heterogeneous label systems. To address this challenge, we propose Cross-Domain Mixup (CDMix), a supervised domain-adaptation method designed to leverage a larger labeled source dataset to improve performance on a smaller labeled target dataset under dis
04540|An experimental study on mechanical properties of concrete containing steel and polypropylene fibers at high temperatures
   > [no abstract]
04541|Domain-adapted large language models for agricultural product information extraction with graph retrieval augmented generation
   > low as 4.1%. These results validate the framework’s ability to effectively combine domain adaptation and structured knowledge reasoning, achieving high factuality, interpretability, and adaptability for
04542|Cataloguing the alien spermatophyte flora of a remote tropical island: Methods and insights from Isla del Coco, Costa Rica
   > [no term] Invasive alien species are one of the most severe threats to island biodiversity. An essential first step in addressing this issue is producing comprehensive inventories of alien species inhabiting them.
04543|Chronic warming stimulates growth of marsh grasses more than mangroves in a coastal wetland ecotone.
   > [no abstract]
04544|Ethnobotany of Food Plants Based on Land Characteristics in Lombok Island
   > [no term] The ethnobotanical study of food crops is very important to be carried out because it can be a means of natural resource conservation, social and economic sustainability of local communities.
04545|Использование вегетационного индекса NDVI для оценки качества почв пашни (на примере Баксанского района Кабардино-Балкарии)
   > [no abstract]
04546|Multi-source pseudo-label learning of semantic segmentation for the scene recognition of agricultural mobile robots
   > require abundant labels given by tedious manual annotation for training. Although unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) is studied as a workaround for such a problem, existing … multiple publicly available datasets not dedicated to greenhouses. We exploit segmentation models pre-trained on each source dataset to generate pseudo-labels for the target images based
04547|Quantifying Drought Characteristics in Complex Climate and Scarce Data Regions of Afghanistan
   > extreme drought with high resiliency and low risk to drought compared to other regions. As R-1, R-3 and R-5 are located in the southwest, center … drought intensity with increasing drought return periods. In contrast, the intensity significantly decreased when the time scale increased, and fewer were enhanced within the increasing
04548|Fatty Acid Profiling and Chemometric Analyses for Zanthoxylum Pericarps from Different Geographic Origin and Genotype
   > [no term] Zanthoxylum plants, important aromatic plants, have attracted considerable attention in the food, pharmacological, and industrial fields because of their potential health benefits, and they are easily accessible because of the
04549|Characterization of stress coping style in Senegalese sole (Solea senegalensis) juveniles and breeders for aquaculture
   > sampled in order to measure cortisol, glucose and lactate. Three tests (restraining, new environment and confinement) characterized the stress coping style behaviour of Senegalese sole
04550|Identification of shanlan upland rice varieties based on improved YOLOv8s
   > [no term] As a unique wild upland rice in Hainan, shanlan upland rice has important germplasm resources value. In order to deal with the problem of shanlan upland rice variety recognition, this
04551|Cross-domain fault diagnosis through optimal transport for a CSTR process
   > may diﬀer in distribution from real-world data. This setting is known as cross-domain fault diagnosis (CDFD). We use optimal transport for: (i) exploring how modelling … matching source and target distributions through the framework of optimal transport for domain adaptation (OTDA), resulting in new training data that follows the target distribution.
04552|Uncertain-aware Patch Learning for Ambiguous Facial Expression Recognition
   > scenarios, which undoubtedly hinders the performance of deep learning models for FER in the wild. Therefore, a new uncertain-aware patch learning method (UAPL) is proposed
04553|Analisis curahan tenaga kerja pria dan wanita dalam usahatani hortikultura di lahan gambut
   > [no term] Research was conducted to examine the contribution of male and female workers in horticultural farming on peatlands in Limbung and Madu Sari Villages, Sungai Raya District, Kubu Raya Regency. The
04554|BRITISH YEAST GROUP 2022: FROM GENOMES TO CELLS
   > [no abstract]
04555|Advanced Medicinal Plant Leaf Identification Using a ResNet–QPSO–SVM Framework
   > [no abstract]
04556|Diversification and Spatial Differentiation of Villages’ Functional Types in the New Period of China: Results from Hierarchical Urban-Rural Spatial Re
   > contribute to scientifically guiding the configuration of urban-rural factors in terms of different regions and villages multifunctional types. This paper takes 3042 administrative villages of
04557|Comment on gmd-2022-211 Anonymous Referee
   > [no abstract]
04558|Enhancing Gene Set Analysis in Embedding Spaces: A Novel Best-Match Approach
   > [no abstract]
04559|RETRACTED: Analysis of Weed Growth in Rabi Crop Agriculture Using Deep Convolutional Neural Networks
   > [no term] Weed interference for the duration of crop establishment is a severe difficulty for wheat in North India [22.9734 ° N, 78.6569 ° E]. In situ far-flung detection for precision herbicide
04560|Semantic Prioritization of Novel Causative Genomic Variants in Mendelian and Oligogenic Diseases
   > [no abstract]
04561|Ultra-Short-Term Photovoltaic Power Forecasting Based on the Moirai Time Series Foundation Model
   > deep learning methods typically require collecting large amounts of historical data for independent training at each PV site, which incurs high computational costs and lacks … technical pathway to overcome this dilemma. This paper systematically evaluates the zero-shot generalization capability of the Moirai time series foundation model for ultra-short-term PV power
04562|How many species are there on Earth
   > [no abstract]
04563|Perturbation-Aware Diffusion-Guided Hybrid Segmentation for Robust and Annotation-Efficient Plant Stress Phenotyping
   > yet practical deployment requires robustness to appearance perturbations, limited annotations, and cross domain shift. This paper presents a diffusion-guided hybrid segmentation framework in which U-Net, … by boundary-constrained optimization, perturbation-guided retraining, low-data evaluation, constrained hyperparameter screening, and controlled cross-domain adaptation. On PlantSegV3, the best s
04564|A Practical Embedded System Utilizing Artificial Intelligence Technology
   > [no term] Thereis a clear and present lethal clash between South Africa's wildlife and its expanding population. Some of its main effects are harm to people and property. Fatalities, crop damage, livestock
04565|InterFolia: an embedded, educational application to identify plant species in the wild
   > [no abstract]
04566|B17 Establishing a neural progenitor cell model of huntington’s disease
   > [no term] Background There is a need for improved human and mouse cell models of Huntington’s disease. Neural stem cells (NSCs) are a pool of stem cell like progenitors responsible for self-renewal
04567|Interactive comment on “ Effects of sample size on estimation of rainfall extremes at high temperatures ” by Berry Boessenkool et al
   > [no abstract]
04568|EFFECT OF REGULATED DEFICIT IRRIGATION ON THE MORPHOLOGY, PHYSIOLOGY, CARBON ALLOCATION AND NONSTRUCTURAL CARBOHYDRATES OF THREE KENTUCKY BLUEGRASSES
   > [no abstract]
04569|MUCIN MRNA ISOFORM SIGNATURES AS POTENTIAL NOVEL BIOMARKERS TO EVALUATE DISEASE STATUS IN PATIENTS WITH INFLAMMATORY BOWEL DISEASES
   > biopsies (GEO dataset GSE193677) were mapped to determine mucin isoform expression. An external dataset (GEO dataset GSE165512) was used for additional validation. A classification random forest was trained on this data to distinguish inflamed IBD from non-inflamed control patients based … expression alone. The model performed well on train and test datasets but decreased in the external validatio
04570|CROP: Towards Distributional-Shift Robust Reinforcement Learning using Compact Reshaped Observation Processing
   > The safe application of reinforcement learning (RL) requires generalization from limited training data to unseen scenarios. Yet, fulfilling tasks under changing circumstances is a key challenge in RL. Current state-of-the-art approaches for generalization apply data augmentation techniques to increase the diversity of training data. Even … shown to be a challenging task itself. To improve data eff
04571|Autonomous Model Lifecycle Management for Digital Twin-Based Manufacturing Control
   > [no term] Manufacturing AI systems must autonomously adapt to continuous distributional shift from raw-material variability, ambient changes, and equipment aging, under strict safeguard and operator-trust requirements where model failures risk physical damage.
04572|Priors and Posteriors in Bayesian Timing of Divergence Analyses: The Age of Butterflies Revisited
   > [no term] Abstract The need for robust estimates of times of divergence is essential for downstream analyses, yet assessing this robustness is still rare. We generated a time-calibrated genus-level phylogeny of butterflies
04573|Enhanced Detection and Classification of Pearl Diseases using Convolutional Neural Networks with Data Augmentation
   > including rotations, flips, and brightness adjustments, to improve the model's ability to generalize across varying real-world conditions. The CNN was trained on a dataset of healthy and diseased leaves, achieving an impressive overall
04574|Astrocyte cell surface marker phenotyping: Identification of multipotent ACSA-2-/GLAST+ cerebellar progenitor cells
   > [no abstract]
04575|RNA-seq reveals differentially expressed genes in rice (Oryza sativa) roots during interactions with plant-growth promoting bacteria, Azospirillum bra
   > [no term] Major non-legume crops can form beneficial associations with nitrogen-fixing bacteria like Azospirillum brasilense. Our current understanding of the molecular aspects and signaling that occur between important crops like rice and
04576|Peramalan Pendistribusian Jumlah Beras Non Raskin Menggunakan Arima Box-Jenkins dan Optimasi Pendistribusian Raskin Menggunakan Metode Transportasi di
   > [no abstract]
04577|Dataset for orange fruit detection from UAV in citrus orchards
   > with fine-grained fruit-level annotations, enabling research on fruit detection, yield estimation, and domain adaptation in real-world orchard environments. It represents a valuable benchmark for advancing
04578|MTEX-CNN: Multivariate Time Series EXplanations for Predictions with Convolutional Neural Networks
   > our approach on two use cases, namely to predict rare server outages in the wild, as well as the average energy production of photovoltaic power
04579|Optimizing the ResNet50 Model with Five Optimizers for Detecting Rice Leaf Diseases
   > detection. Results demonstrate that adaptive optimizers substantially enhance ResNet50’s learning stability and generalization compared to traditional methods. The Adamax variant exhibited the most stable convergence … mobile deployment. Future studies should address model compression, real-time inference optimization, and cross-crop generalization to strengthen the scalability of AI-assisted dise
04580|Performance of Optimized CNN Models in Classification of Citrus Limon Diseases
   > dataset of 2,032 labeled images. To enhance data quality and improve model generalization, the dataset was preprocessed through normalization and augmented using geometric and intensity-based … accuracy exhibited noticeable fluctuations, suggesting instability and reduced robustness when exposed to unseen samples. The VGG19EfficientNetB7 fusion model demonstrated competitive accuracy in selected d
04581|Lai Estimation of Paddy Rice Using Sentinel-2 Vegetation Indices
   > practical and efficient LAI estimation with Sentinel-2 data for data collected from different regions and help improve rice crop monitoring studies.
04582|Out-of-Distribution Object Detection in Autonomous Vehicles With Yolo Model
   > This paper addresses the challenge of detecting Out-of-Distribution (OOD) objects in autonomous vehicles, focusing on identifying and localizing objects absent
04583|A Hybrid AI Approach for Predicting and Preventing Wild Animal Movements in Rural and Farmland Ecosystems
   > [no term] Villagers living near forests face serious threats from wild animals, including crop damage, livestock loss, and risks to human safety. In order to overcome these problems generally the guards are
04584|CROP: Conservative Reward for Model-Based Offline Policy Optimization
   > Nonetheless, a prevalent issue in offline RL is the overestimation caused by distribution shift. This study proposes a novel model-based offline RL algorithm named Conservative … designed conservative reward mechanism leads to a conservative policy evaluation and mitigates distribution shift. Experiments showcase that with the simple modification to reward estimation, CROP
04585|Differential proteome analysis of the leaves of lead hyperaccumulator, Rhoeo discolor (L. Her.) Hance.
   > more extensive, proteome wide analysis utilizing label-free quantitation further identified a predominant decrease in protein levels and a significant effect on the nuclear proteome, as
04586|ESTIMATION OF THE COST OF THE ELECTRICITY SUPPLY FORECAST ERROR FOR THE "GREEN" TARIFF PRODUCERS BALANCE GROUP
   > [no term] The statistical analysis of the forecast error of the "day ahead" electricity supply volumes by the producers, which are included in the balancing group of the State Enterprise "Guaranteed Buyer”,
04587|In toto light sheet fluorescence microscopy live imaging datasets of Ceratitis capitata embryonic development
   > [no term] The Mediterranean fruit fly (medfly), Ceratitis capitata, is an important model organism in biology and agricultural research with high economic relevance. However, information about its embryonic development is still sparse.
04588|Notch1 and Galectin-3 Modulate Cortical Reactive Astrocyte Response After Brain Injury
   > in contrast to its extracellular localization in non-reactive astrocytes, and NICD1/Gal3 pattern distribution shifted from diffuse to vesicular upon astrocyte reactivation. In vitro, Gal3–/– reactive … reduced number of GFAP reactive astrocytes, with smaller cell body perimeter and decreased NICD1 presence at the lesion core. These results suggest that Gal3 might
04589|AgriField-40K: Adapting Vision Models to Agriculture With Efficient Continual Pretraining
   > present AgriMAE, a parameter-efficient continual pretraining baseline that adapts a masked autoencoder pretrained on natural images by training only lightweight adapters. We further explore semantic
04590|Hybrid and Physics-Informed AI Models for Soil Water Dynamics in Sustainable Agriculture—A Review
   > intelligence (AI)-based and hybrid approaches differ in process representation, data demand and transferability. This structured narrative review critically compared these approaches and used auxiliary publication-record … models enabled flexible multi-source prediction and remote-sensing integration but remained vulnerable to domain shift, weak extrapolation and limited process interpretability. 
04591|Enhanced Leaf Disease Diagnosis in Black‐Pepper Plants Using a Dense Back‐Projection Joint Attention Network
   > [no term]  Agriculture is a fundamental sector that ensures food security, particularly in the context of a rapidly growing global population. In this manuscript, Enhanced Leaf Disease Diagnosis in Black‐Pepper Plants
04592|CF-SAM: An Efficient and Precise SAM Model for Instance Segmentation of Cotton Top Leaves
   > encoder to reduce computational overhead and employs a LoRA-based fine-tuning strategy for domain adaptation, achieving improved performance with minimal parameter increments. In addition, an Adaptive … automatically generate high-quality point prompts, enabling fully automated and end-to-end instance segmentation. Trained on only 1000 field images, CF-SAM achieves 98.0% mask accuracy and an
04593|Near real-time yield forecasting of winter wheat using Sentinel-2 imagery at the early stages
   > [no abstract]
04594|The Optimization of Stand Structure Can Significantly Alleviate the Flammability of Forest Ecosystems
   > managers to assess and mitigate fire risk, and it also applies to other regions.
04595|Development of Spectral Signature of Land Cover and Feature Extraction using Artificial Neural Network Model
   > vegetation, and crop. The resulting accuracy of classification using ANNs method for different years (2017, 2010, and 2003) are 90.10%, 75.75%, and 78.37%. The results
04596|An iterative energy-based multimodal transformer for joint retrieval of wheat soil moisture, leaf area index, and plant height from Sentinel-1 and Sen
   > screening the 10% highest-energy samples markedly reduced target level root-mean-square errors. While leave-one-campaign-out validation highlights persistent cross-season domain shift challenges due to localized management variations, compatibility-guided multimodal fusion offers a
04597|Long-term changes of steppe-associated wild bees differ between shell-nesting and ground-nesting species
   > [no abstract]
04598|The impact of pneumococcal conjugate vaccines on disease epidemiology, serotype distribution, and antimicrobial resistance in children. A 25-year obse
   > from 59% in the pre-PCV period to 35.1% in post-PCV13, while age distribution shifted toward older children (p < .001). All PCV7/13 serotypes decreased significantly in the post-PCV periods, except serotype 3 which increased, contributing substantially … in post-PCV13 period (p < .001), with MDR serotypes 19F and 23F decreasing over time and 19A becoming the predominant MDR phenotype (47.1%) in th
04599|Complete chloroplast and ribosomal sequences for 30 accessions elucidate evolution of Oryza AA genome species
   > [no term] Cytoplasmic chloroplast (cp) genomes and nuclear ribosomal DNA (nR) are the primary sequences used to understand plant diversity and evolution. We introduce a high-throughput method to simultaneously obtain complete cp
04600|GDDS: A Single Domain Generalized Defect Detection Frame of Open World Scenario using Gather and Distribute Domain-shift Suppression Network
   > power plant inspections a challenge. Therefore, we propose the Gather and Distribute Domain shift Suppression Network (GDDS). It adopts a single domain generalized method that is completely independent of the test samples to address the problem of distribution shift. Using a one-stage network as the baseline network breaks through the limitations of traditional domain generalization methods that t
04601|Featured Presentations FDC 118 Moderator :
   > [no abstract]
04602|Cross-Scale Unified Semantic Space Learning for Small-Scale Pest and Disease Detection in Protected Agriculture
   > an end-to-end DS-DETR detector based on DETR. Unlike existing methods relying on domain adaptation, multi-scale fusion, or super-resolution reconstruction, this work explicitly models instance-level cross-scale
04603|Replacing YOLOv8n with YOLOv12n in Greenhouse Automation: A Post-Thesis Evaluation Using the Unified Detection Score (UDS)
   > such as mAP@50 and precision, which may overlook nuanced model behavior in real-world conditions. To address this gap, we introduce the Unified Detection Score (UDS)
04604|Viability of using Convolutional Neural Networks for Real-Time Fescue and Sheep Sorrel Detection in Wild Blueberry Fields
   > [no term] —Wild blueberry (Vaccinium angustifolium Ait.) production is hindered by weeds such as fescue (Festuca filiformis Pourr.) and sheep sorrel (Rumex acetosella L.). Commercial sprayers provide a uniform application of herbicide
04605|Human Selective Matting
   > body parts of the neighboring humans. In addition, these methods are only trained on finely annotated synthetic data, which causes poor performance in real-world scenarios due to the domain shift. To address these problems, we propose human selective matting (HSMatt), which … data and coarsely annotated real-world data, resulting in high accuracy and good generalization. To evaluate the proposed H
04606|Evolutionary and functional divergence of MYB regulatory networks in flavonoid biosynthesis across Poaceae, non-Poaceae monocots, and eudicot horticul
   > adaptive expansion of SG5 associated with fruit trait evolution. We further discuss cross-species divergence within conserved flavonoid-regulatory subgroups, including variations in spatiotemporal expression patterns and
04607|Random Pixel Selection through Image Cropping for Data Augmentation and Classification
   > dataset while trying to capture the regions of interest and dismiss the other regions, which leads to better generalization of the training model, The accuracy of the proposed method on Deep
04608|Quantifying Land Cover Change Due to Petroleum Exploration and Production in the Haynesville Shale Region Using Remote Sensing
   > [no abstract]
04609|Characterizing grapevine 3D inflorescence architecture using X-ray imaging and advanced morphometrics: implications for understanding cluster density
   > correlation analyses revealed unexpected relationships, for example pedicel branch angles were largely independent of other traits. We identified multivariate traits that typified species, which allowed
04610|Biomass comparison of two potato (Solanum tuberosum L.) varieties of different origin, sowed in Chirgua, Carabobo state, Venezuela.
   > [no abstract]
04611|Experimental Investigation and CFD modelling for Indoor Air Thermal Conditions in Worship Buildings in Egypt: Church and Masjid
   > of both experimental and CFD investigations are in good agreement at their different locations and they give that the average air temperatures inside both experimental
04612|Brain-phenotype predictions of language and executive function can survive across diverse real-world data: Dataset shifts in developmental populations
   > Predictive modeling potentially increases the reproducibility and generalizability of neuroimaging brain-phenotype associations. Yet, the evaluation of a model in another dataset is underutilized. Among studies that undertake external validation, there is a notable lack of attention to generalization across dataset-specific idiosyncrasies (i.e., dataset shifts). Research settings, by design, remov
04613|Revealing Chronotypes Across Aquatic Species Using Acoustic Telemetry
   > [no term] Acoustic telemetry offers valuable opportunities to investigate individual variability in circadian‐related and other behaviours and how environmental cues shape these patterns in wild fish populations. However, this potential has not
04614|Estimation of Paddy leaves Chlorophyll Content Using Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)
   > images of paddy leaves, spanning 122 unique chlorophyll content levels. A meticulous data partitioning strategy allocates 244 images for model training, with 122 and 180
04615|TriPerceptNet: a lightweight multi-scale enhanced YOLOv11 model for accurate rice disease detection in complex field environments
   > yet to be evaluated across multiple domains. Future work will focus on cross-domain generalization and deployment optimization using lightweight techniques such as quantization, pruning, and transformer-based
04616|Influence of production and conservation conditions on the physical-chemical properties of blueberry with modeling through artificial neural networks
   > [no abstract]
04617|RainRunner - Machine Learning and Earth observation for reliable rainfall information in West Africa
   > surface temperature and the concentration of atmospheric aerosols are higher than in other regions in the world. Hence, RainRunner will utilize information relevant to the
04618|Plant Disease Detection Using Deep Learning Model
   > dependence, overfitting, and lengthy training times. Many models struggle to work in real-world conditions because of limited data and difficulty in finding similar-looking diseases. Our
04619|Periodic Convolutional Neural Network-Based Approach for Detecting Wildlife Penetration in Smart Agriculture
   > [no term] The combination of habitat encroachment and deforestation events produces escalating incidents of wild animals raiding crops that results in significant farmer revenue loss with additional dangers to human populations. Through
04620|Performance Analysis of Deep Learning Classification for Agriculture Applications Using Sentinel-2 Data
   > [no abstract]
04621|Joint Semi-supervised 3D Super-Resolution and Segmentation with Mixed Adversarial Gaussian Domain Adaptation
   > medical imaging aims to increase the resolution of images but is conventionally trained on features from low resolution datasets and does not super-resolve corresponding segmentations. … while an unsupervised variational adversarial mixture autoencoder (V-AMA) is used for continuous domain adaptation. Our proposed approach is extensively evaluated on two transnational multi-ethnic populations
04622|A Single Standard to Determine Multi-Components Method Coupled with Chemometric Methods for the Quantification, Evaluation and Classification of Notop
   > markers for the discrimination of Notopterygii rhizoma and radix planted in the different regions. Furthermore, the Fisher’s discriminant analysis is used to build the models that are used to classify Notopterygii rhizoma and radix from the different regions based on the six chemical markers. Experimental results indicate that Notopterygii … radix planted in the Sichuan province are distinguished 
04623|Advancing Crop Health: An Integrated Deep Learning Approach For Plant Disease Detection
   > [no term] Plant diseases present a significant threat to agricultural activities and food security particularly where experts cannot be easily put in place to detect the diseased plants. The proposed paper introduces
04624|A Cross-Level Information Transmission Network for Predicting Phenotype from New Genotype: Application to Cancer Precision Medicine
   > explicitly model the asymmetrical multi-level organization of the biological system. Inspired by domain adaptation, CLEIT first learns the latent representation of high-level domain then uses … pre-training-fine-tuning approach to leveraging the unlabeled heterogeneous omics data to improve the generalizability of CLEIT. We demonstrate the effectiveness and performance boost of CLEIT in
04625|Ranking Instability Under Corruption in Point Cloud Completion: A Matched-Control Audit on the Point Completion Network Benchmark
   > [no term] Point cloud completion (PCC) leaderboards routinely rank models by a single aggregate metric (typically chamfer distance, CD-L1) on a clean test split, implicitly assuming this rank holds under realistic sensor
04626|Morphotypes, distribution and uses of false banana in Uganda
   > was carried out throughout the country to identify its natural habitats in different regions. Local people were interviewed on the uses of enset, etymology, and … identification of morphotypes. Enset was generally widely, but sparsely distributed in the different regions in Uganda; growing at elevations ranging between 988 (Moyo district) to
04627|Systems Intelligence and Optimization Laboratory (SIOL)
   > [no abstract]
04628|Detection of Animals in Thermal Imagery for Surveillance using GAN and Object Detection Framework
   > [no term] Wild animals have been a challenge to farmers worldwide as they are very active during the nighttime. Animals like elephants, deer, monkeys, cows, rats, peacocks, and many cause severe damage
04629|Enhanced Discrimination of Olive and Citrus Orchards in Semi-Arid Regions Using Sentinel-1/2 Data Fusion and Hybrid Texture Phenology Features
   > analysis showed strong intra-NDVI coherence (0.869), moderate intra-radar correlation (0.780), and complementary cross-sensor correlation (0.769), confirming the added value of radar-optical fusion. An Extra Trees classifier trained on 24 temporal features (12 NDVI +12 radar) achieved an accuracy of 91.83% and an F1-score of 0.9116 on the independent test set, while an ablation study showed that N
04630|Phytochemical profiling using FTIR- and LC-HRMS-based metabolomics, mineral content, and free radical scavenging activity of Sonchus arvensis extracts
   > [no abstract]
04631|The Impact of Training-Testing Proportion on Forecasting Accuracy: A Case of Agricultural Export in Indonesia
   > model performance, indicating that model selection plays a more critical role than data partitioning. Overall, this study highlights the robustness of exponential smoothing methods as
04632|Klasifikasi Tingkat Kesegaran Cumi - Cumi Berdasarkan Fitur Tekstur dan Warna dengan Menggunakan Metode Support Vector Machine
   > [no abstract]
04633|SRNet-YOLO: A model for detecting tiny and very tiny pests in cotton fields based on super-resolution reconstruction
   > Effective pest management is important during the natural growth phases of cotton in the wild. As cotton fields are infested with “tiny pests” (smaller than … reached 57% mAP, which are 32.2% higher than YOLOv8. To verify the generalizability of the model, our experiments on Yellow Sticky Traps (low-resolution) dataset still
04634|An In-Depth Study of Indian Carrot Varieties Through Advanced Deep Learning Classification Techniques
   > 8000 carrot images of which each variety has 2000 images. To assure generalization to real-world conditions, data augmentation techniques were performed to make the model more robust.
04635|Leafy AI: Integrating MobileNetV2 and TensorFlow Lite into a Flutter-Based Application for Real-Time Ornamental Plant Recognition
   > accuracy of 0.89. A smaller field experiment involving 226 photos captured under real-world conditions resulted in lower accuracy, primarily due to variations in lighting and … out on ordinary smartphones and that further improvements are possible through augmentation, domain adaptation, quantization, and hardware acceleration.
04636|Potential water demand from the agricultural sector in hydrographic sub-basins in the southeast of the state of São Paulo-Brazil
   > [no abstract]
04637|Real-Time Wildlife Intrusion Detection Using YOLOv8 and OpenCV
   > [no term] The purpose of this work is to employ OpenCV, a Computer Vision library, to design an Animal Intrusion Detection and Alert System for farms. The system will monitor for animal
04638|Federated Transfer Learning for Tomato Leaf Disease Detection Using Neuro-Graph Hybrid Model
   > Despite being a promising line of research, current approaches struggle with poor cross-site generalization, limited labels and dataset bias. Real-field complexities, such as environmental variability, heterogeneous … evaluation protocols. Synthetic data generation and self-supervised learning reduce dataset bias, while domain adaptation, hyperspectral, and thermal signals improve robustness acros
04639|SE-FedMLP: A Federated Learning Approach with Squeeze-and-Excitation MLP for Crop Recommendation
   > a synthetic dataset to simulate real agricultural scenarios, including data variations across different regions The model was trained across 3 clients using the FedProx algorithm,
04640|Federated Learning in Agriculture: Current Advances, Open Challenges, and Future Horizons
   > [no term] The rapid digitalization of agriculture has produced vast and diverse data from sensors, drones, and farm management systems. Yet, data sharing among farms remains constrained by privacy, ownership, and interoperability
04641|Floristic Diversity and Ethnobotanical Uses of Vedhagiri Hills in Bhavani, Erode District, Tamil Nadu
   > [no abstract]
04642|Partially characterized topology guides reliable anchor-free scRNA-integration
   > three key loss components: a reconstruction loss that targets observation reconstruction, a multi-domain adaptation loss aimed at eliminating batch effects, and an innovative dual-resolution triplet … is introduced as an effective mechanism to counteract the over-correction effect of domain adaptation loss amid heterogeneous cell distributions across batches. We show that scCRAFT
04643|Characterization of Mutations Causing CYP21A2 Deficiency in Brazilian and Portuguese Populations
   > [no term] Deficiency of 21-hydroxylase enzyme (CYP21A2) represents 90% of cases in congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH), an autosomal recessive disease caused by defects in cortisol biosynthesis. Computational prediction and functional studies are
04644|Facial Emotion Recognition Using Deep Learning
   > emotions. We use a CNN and an RNN based on documents submitted in the Wild Challenge for emotional recognition. An input video is divided into
04645|Multimodal Causal Fusion Network for Robust Imaging-Genomic Colorectal Cancer Survival Prediction with Counterfactual Regularization
   > phenotypes, genomic pathways, clinical covariates, and survival results to boost interpretability and generalization. MCF-Net tested on a multi-source CRC cohort has a test concordance index (C -index) … 88.9, a sensitivity of 87.4, and a specificity of 90.2. In simulated domain shift experiments, the performance was only degraded by 2.1, much lower than 7.8 in regular multimodal fusion.
04646|RiceDSNet: A Graph-Based Spatial Interaction Model Integrated with BiFormer for Rice Disease Segmentation in natural scene
   > thereby enhancing the ability to discern complex backgrounds. GSIM captures relationships between different regions of the entire image, strengthening discrimination across various backgrounds. To tackle
04647|Autonomous Mapping of Grass-Clover Ratio Based on Unmanned Aerial Vehicles and Convolutional Neural Networks
   > [no abstract]
04648|Edge-to-Cloud Infrastructure Continuum: A Unified Framework for Optimizing Industrial IoT Systems
   > hundreds of billions of real-time events. This work provides systems engineers with cross-domain methodologies for designing next-generation IIoT and AI infrastructure.
04649|Distributions and Risk Assessment of the Natural Radionuclides in the Soil of Shoubra El Kheima, South Nile Delta, Egypt
   > [no term] Due to heightening concern about radiation hazards protection, activity concentrations of 226Ra, 232Th, 40K in forty soil samples collected from Shoubra El Kheima in the South Nile Delta were measured
04650|Semantic Multi-Classifier Systems Identify Predictive Processes in Heart Failure Models across Species
   > for new molecular markers of heart failure. Furthermore, we were able to independently corroborate the identified processes in Wistar rats.
04651|Examples of Computer Vision Systems Applications Based on Neural Networks
   > [no abstract]
04652|Agri-Aid: A Hybrid Embedded IoT-AI Framework for Smart Irrigation and Plant Disease Detection
   > influence not only crops, but also farmers. This paper introduces Agri-Aid, a cross-domain embedded system that implements an IoT sensing system with lightweight machine learning … Disease detection at the edge is possible through a small convolutional model trained on both custom field samples and images of Plants. Agri-Aid automatically controls
04653|Mahalanobis Distance Filter for Open-Set Crop Disease Detection on Edge Devices
   > In smart agriculture, deep learning-based disease recognition faces Out-of-Distribution (OOD) challenges when novel pathogens appear. This paper proposes a Normalized Mahalanobis … A two-stage gating strategy separates unhealthy-sample detection from novel-disease identification. Validated on cross-dataset nematode images, the filter achieves 100% diseased-sample interception and 76.47% novel-dise
04654|Folk classification of wild mushrooms from San Isidro Buensuceso, Tlaxcala, Central Mexico
   > technique with non-utilitarian stimuli allowed the fungi to be identified as an independent group of plants and animals. The Nahua people of San Isidro classify
04655|Incorporating Local Adaptation Into the Forecasts of Paeonia Veitchii Distribution
   > 6.0, and 8.5). Critical environmental variables that shape separate population distributions and distribution shifts under multiple climate change scenarios were also identified. ResultsThe results showed
04656|Lightweight Cross-Domain Few-Shot Plant Disease Recognition Through Target-Domain Statistical Calibration
   > ± 0.72% for five-shot, where ± denotes the standard deviation across three independent data splits. The main performance gains stemmed from TBA; adding DANN or TSA-style test-time adaptation did not yield consistent additional improvements. What are the implications of the main findings? For agricultural cross-domain few-shot disease recognition, shifting the main domain-correction step to trainin
04657|Temperature and pH growth profile prediction of newly isolated bacterial strains from alkaline soils.
   > alkaline soils were investigated. For this purpose, soil samples were collected from different locations: leached soil from the Danube river, cement factory wastewater accumulation, deposit
04658|PLoRA: Low-Rank Attention Adaptation of Foundation Models for Improved Plant Disease Identification
   > disease detection, traditional models often require large annotated datasets and struggle to generalize across diverse field conditions. Foundation models (FMs) offer a promising alternative due to their strong representational capacity; however, their deployment is challenged by domain adaptation and high computational demands. To address these limitations, we propose PLoRA
04659|Anatomy-Guided Spatiotemporal Affinity Learning for Unsupervised Domain Adaptation in Echocardiography Segmentation.
   > Unsupervised domain adaptation for left ventricle segmentation in echocardiography is critical to enhance clinical … (ACA) module uses LV-dominant cropping and four-chamber-complete (4C-complete) mirroring to adapt the source domain toward the target domain's anatomical context; (2) at the feature level, an Anatomical Affinity Refinement
04660|Classification of rice based on storage time by using near infrared spectroscopy and chemometric methods
   > feeds more than half of the world’s population. The freshness of rice decreases with storage time, therefore a fast and easy system for determining quality … methods can be considered as an effective method to classify rice from different years of storage. This article provides a new technology for the evaluation
04661|Multi-modal Masked Autoencoders Learn Compositional Histopathological Representations
   > require negative sampling and requires little to no data augmentations. However, the domain shift between natural images and digital pathology images requires further research in
04662|Using UAV-Based Multispectral Imagery, Data-Driven Models, and Spatial Cross-Validation for Corn Grain Yield Prediction
   > random forest (RF), and linear regression (LR) models using standard cross-validation and spatial cross-validation approaches. We found that multi-band datasets led to better performance than
04663|AMCD: A multi-domain agricultural crop and flower image dataset for deep learning-based classification
   > for agricultural image classification, transfer learning, model benchmarking, lightweight mobile model development, domain adaptation, and healthy-specimen reference data in plant image analysis.
04664|The first generation of a regional-scale 1-m forest canopy cover dataset using machine learning and google earth engine cloud computing platform: A ca
   > technologies can generate high-resolution forest cover datasets, which might be helpful in other regions of the world.
04665|Genetic markers in marine fisheries: Types, tasks and trends
   > [no abstract]
04666|Climate-induced distribution dynamics and niche adaptation of South Korean endemic plants across the Korean Peninsula
   > South Korea, especially those in specialized ecological niches, confront heightened risks of distribution shifts and habitat degradation. To provide a comprehensive understanding of these impacts, this study evaluates the
04667|A Hierarchical Deep Domain Adaptation Approach for Fault Diagnosis of Power Plant Thermal System
   > but related under different operating conditions, this paper proposes a hierarchical deep domain adaptation (HDDA) approach to transfer a classifier trained on labeled data under one loading condition to identify faults with unlabeled data under another loading condition. In HDDA, a hierarchical structure is developed to reveal the
04668|Comparative Transcriptomic Insights into the Mechanisms Underlying Maize (Zea mays L.) Embryogenic Callus Differentiation
   > [no term] The regeneration of plant somatic cells is a prerequisite for their biological breeding. Identification of key genes controlling embryogenic callus (EC) differentiation and investigation of the genetic mechanism of cell
04669|Identification of Orthosiphon stamineus from different phytogeographical zones in Indonesia by FTIR-fingerprinting and chemometrics
   > was conducted to analyze and classify 14 samples of OS leaves from different regions in Indonesia according to phytogeographic profiles using a combination of Fourier-transform … FTIR fingerprinting combined with chemometrics can distinguish between OS crude drugs from different locations. Introducing a wider variety of OS analytical methods is believed to
04670|Weather Parameters and Heat Index Prediction Applying Deep Neural Networks
   > worked just to determine the effect of change of heat index in different regions. A number of works were based on machine learning algorithms and
04671|Quantitative variation and heritability estimates of fire blight resistance in a pedigree-connected apple germplasm set
   > [no abstract]
04672|Temperature response of respiration and respiratory quotients of 16 co-occurring temperate tree species
   > [no abstract]
04673|USE OF ARCTIC BERRY RAW MATERIALS IN THE TECHNOLOGY OF CASED CANDIES
   > [no term] Confectionery products, including chocolate ones, are in constant demand among the population of the Russian Federation even during periods of economic crisis. However, despite the wide range of chocolate products,
04674|Wild plant species associated viromes : towards improved characterization strategies and variability in various ecological environments
   > [no term]  Les approches de métagénomique basées sur l’utilisation des techniques de séquençage haut débit ont ouvert une nouvelle ère pour la découverte non biaisée et la caractérisation génomique des virus.
04675|Typological and Floristic Diversity of Fir Stands in the Teberda National Park
   > the typological diversity of fir forests in the Teberda National Park and other regions of the North Caucasus and Transcaucasia indicates a decrease in variability with a shift in the “spectrum” towards mixed forests in
04676|dtwSat: An R Package for Land Cover Classification Using Satellite Image Time Series
   > [no abstract]
04677|Editorial: Historical perspectives and future needs in soil mapping, classification, and pedologic modeling
   > but a major milestone in the development of soil science as an independent, scientific field of study was the development of Dokuchaev’s functional– factoral model,
04678|Analysis of plant raw materials and extracts applying various vibrational spectroscopy techniques – possibilities and limitations
   > [no term] New methods using MIR, NIR and Raman spectroscopy in combination with various chemometric algorithms are presented which allow monitoring numerous plant samples very efficiently within a short time. Today portable
04679|Accelerating the Training of Convolutional Neural Networks for Image Segmentation with Deep Active Learning
   > First, we compare six different state-of-the-art querying methods, including uncertainty-estimate, Bayesian, and out-of-distribution methods. Our comparison uses the state-of-the-art image segmentation architecture DeepLab on the … We show that the differences are nevertheless robust by reproducing them on architecture-independent randomly generated data. Second, we propose a novel way to aggregat
04680|Evaluating basin wildrye seed sources across provisional seed zones, native forb sowing depth on species performance and improving the accuracy of col
   > [no abstract]
04681|Empirical Study of PEFT techniques for Winter Wheat Segmentation
   > of crop monitoring, a key challenge persists in addressing the intricacies of cross-regional and cross-year crop type recognition. The diversity of climates across different regions and the need for comprehensive large-scale datasets have posed signiﬁcant obstacles … to bridge this gap by comprehensively exploring the feasibility of cross-area and cross-year out-of-distribution generalization usin
04682|Bio-Inspired Optimization for Adaptive Graph Neural Networks to Find and Assess the Severity of Plant Diseases in a Reliable Way
   > data is cut by 40% and when there is noise that simulates real-world conditions. The integrated severity estimation module gives useful information for precision agriculture,
04683|On the Transferability of Agricultural Weed Detection Under Cross-Field Distribution Shift
   > single crop and field, leaving practitioners with little evidence that a model trained on one crop will generalize to a new field or crop type. In this work, we characterize where cross-dataset weed-localization performance degrades and which modeling choices recover it, reducing the need to relabel every … datasets, we evaluate the performance of several strategies for transferring a detector tra
04684|Historic analysis of habitat suitability for the commercially promising berry crop Kadsura longipedunculata in China under climate change
   > and terrain), we employed the MaxEnt model integrated with ArcGIS to predict distribution shifts across the Last Glacial Maximum (LGM; ~ 22 kyr BP), Mid-Holocene
04685|Distribution of ABO and Rh (D) blood groups among students attending secondary and preparatory schools in Bote town, Oromia national regional state, E
   > [no term] Knowledge of distribution of ABO and Rh blood groups is helpful for effective management of blood banks and safe blood transfusion services. The prevalence of these blood groups varies worldwide
04686|A Novel Method for Automatically Generating Training Samples and Mapping Winter Wheat in North China Based on GEE and Multi-Source Remote Sensing Data
   > and the Kappa coefficient was 0.96. The model also performed well in cross-year mapping, with the classification accuracy remaining above 93% from 2023 to 2024.
04687|Introgression of wild alleles into the tetraploid peanut crop to improve water use efficiency, earliness and yield
   > [no term] The introduction of genes from wild species is a practice little adopted by breeders for the improvement of commercial crops, although it represents an excellent opportunity to enrich the genetic
04688|End-to-End Malayalam-to-English Speech Translation for Agricultural Queries: Dataset Creation and Domain Adaptation
   > for the unadapted Whisper Medium model. These results highlight the effectiveness of domain adaptation through transfer learning for low resource speech translation and establishes a
04689|Utilising DINOv2 for Domain Adaptation in Vegetation Plot Analysis
   > [no abstract]
04690|OS11.1 Temozolomide (TMZ) 1 week on/1 week off as initial treatment for high risk low grade oligodendroglial tumors: a phase II AINO (Italian Associat
   > [no abstract]
04691|Identification and Risk Assessment for Worldwide Invasion and Spread of Tuta absoluta with a Focus on Sub-Saharan Africa: Implications for Phytosanita
   > [no term] To support management decisions, molecular characterization of data and geo-reference of incidence records of Tuta absoluta (Meyrick) (Lepidoptera: Gelechiidae) were combined with data on the biology and ecology of the
04692|The chemotypes of Elsholtzia ciliata (Thunb.) Hyl. germplasms in Vietnam
   > [no term] Elsholtzia ciliata (Thunb.) Hyl., a plant from the Lamiaceae family, is an aromatic plant used in both culinary and traditional medicine in Vietnam and other Asian countries. The aim of
04693|Abstract 14337: Identification of New Clinical Phenotypes of Sudden Cardiac Death Using Artificial Intelligence
   > or acute pulmonary diseases (688) and a group with malignant neoplasms of different sites and related drugs (518), and a group with kidney diseases (279).
04694|A Genomic Map of Climate Adaptation in Arabidopsis thaliana at a Micro-Geographic Scale
   > [no term] Understanding the genetic bases underlying climate adaptation is a key element to predict the potential of species to face climate warming. Although substantial climate variation is observed at a micro-geographic
04695|Okra disease dataset for classification and segmentation: Dataset collection, analysis and applications
   > of the first publicly available Indian okra leaf disease datasets captured in real-world conditions, incorporating natural variations in lighting, leaf positioning, and environmental factors. It … more images, including different growth stages and environmental conditions, to improve model generalization and real-world applicability.
04696|Quantifying the Effect of ENSO on Mangosteen Yield Using Multi-Year Data in Indonesia
   > impacts. Results show that the impact of ENSO on mangosteen varies across different regions of Indonesia. Generally, the number of harvested plants increased during El … and Maluku- Papua. Overall production increased slightly (1–12%) during El Niño but dropped significantly (2–40%) during La Niña, indicating that excessive rainfall during La Niña
04697|AEP-PEST: adaptive edge-enhanced pyramid network for real-time detection of small and occluded agricultural pests
   > [no abstract]
04698|Validation Design Governs Reported Accuracy in Small UAV Hyperspectral Datasets: An Interpretable Feature-Optimization Case Study of Maize Canopy Nitr
   > hyperspectral studies depends strongly on how validation is designed, yet leakage-controlled and cross-site protocols are seldom reported. Using 177 plots in three maize fields at … ranking inside every training fold lowered this to R2 = 0.612–0.627, and leave-one-field-out validation produced negative R2 for every held-out field. Predictions collapsed toward the training mean with strong slope co
04699|Automated Crop Field Surveillance Using Computer Vision
   > [no term] Artificial Intelligence is everywhere today. But unfortunately, Agriculture has not been able to get that much attention from Artificial Intelligence (AI). A lack of automation persists in the agriculture industry.
04700|NIMG-19. DIFFUSION KURTOSIS IMAGING OF THE SUBVENTRICULAR ZONE IN GLIOBLASTOMA
   > [no abstract]
04701|Leaf Doc-XAI: Explainable AI Framework for Transparent Decision Support in Plant Disease Diagnosis
   > classification, many remain difficult to interpret and often show reduced reliability under real-world conditions such as occlusion, noise, and illumination variability. This study proposes LeafDoc-XAI, … baseline models. It also maintained stable performance under severe occlusion and image degradation. The classification module achieved an inference time of approximately 24 ms per
04702|CPAD: Continuous Pretraining for Infrared Images With Advances in Data, Preprocessing, and Paradigm
   > for infrared images is essential to these applications. However, existing vision models pretrained on RGB data often underperform in the infrared domain due to the severe distribution shift. To bridge this gap, we systematically investigate self-supervised learning for infrared
04703|On the necessity of combining ethnobotany and genetics to assess agrobiodiversity and its evolution in crops: A case study on date palms (Phoenix dact
   > [no term] Crop diversity is shaped by biological and social processes interacting at different spatiotemporal scales. Here, we combined population genetics and ethnobotany to investigate date palm (Phoenix dactylifera L.) diversity in
04704|Animal Intrusion Detection System: Protected Crops and Promoted Safety using Machine Learning
   > [no term] Animal assaults on crops were one of the main causes of the precipitous drop in agricultural output. The expansion of farmland into once wild areas has led to an increase
04705|The Mystery of Sleep: Why a Good Night’s Rest Is Vital to a Better, Healthier Life
   > [no term] animals are typically portrayed as mindless killing creatures: everybody knows of the “lifeless eyes” of a great white shark or the “killer instinct” of a wolf. However, closer investigation of
04706|Integrating Feature Selection and Machine Learning for Nitrogen Assessment in Grapevine Leaves using In-Field Hyperspectral Imaging
   > interactions. Leaf-level N-sensitive bands selected for Chardonnay and Pinot Noir were successfully transferred to the canopy level, improving or maintaining prediction accuracy across cultivars. These results confirm that ensemble feature selection captures spectrally robust, scale-consistent bands transferable across measurement levels and cultivars, demonstrating the potential of integrating in
04707|Real-Time Monitoring of Agricultural Land with Crop Prediction and Animal Intrusion Prevention using Internet of Things and Machine Learning at Edge
   > [no term] Agriculture is considered as a foundation of life, since it is the primary source of food and other raw materials. It plays a crucial part in the country's economic development.
04708|Classifying Convergences in the Light of Horizontal Gene Transfer: Epaktovars and Xenotypes
   > two complementary concepts: epaktovars, groups (≥2) of organisms exhibiting convergent phenotypes through independent acquisition of similar functions, whether via horizontal gene transfer (HGT) or independent evolution of analogous solutions, and xenotypes, organisms that share homologous genes acquired … different phenotypes. The epaktovar concept mirrors the previously established concept of ep
04709|Cotton Boll Growth Status Recognition Method under Complex Background Based on Semantic Segmentation
   > was extracted in a complex background by using the context information of different regions as a prior knowledge and selecting ResNet50 as the backbone feature
04710|Analyzing Phenotypes in High-content Screening with Machine Learning
   > [no abstract]
04711|Performance evaluation of a model for the classification of contaminants from wheat using near-infrared hyperspectral imaging
   > [no abstract]
04712|Agroindastrial complex of the Chuvash Republic: intra-regional and All-Russian significance
   > agro-industrial sectors of the republic against the background of a number of other regions of Russia. The share of the industry in the structure of
04713|Influence of Strong Electromagnetic Pulses on Efficiency of Disintegration and Magnetic Separation of Ferruginous Quartzite
   > [no abstract]
04714|Apricot Variety Classification Using Image Processing and Machine Learning Approaches
   > for apricot mass and separate apricot variety with image processing technology using external features of apricot fruit. In this study, five verities of apricot were
04715|Interannual Dynamics of Macrobenthic Communities near a Coastal Nuclear Power Plant: Environmental Drivers and Risks of Cooling Source Blockage
   > environmental factors affecting the changes in the macrobenthic community structure varied across different years in the waters adjacent to the Northeast Fujian NPP. Using the
04716|Domain-Adversarial Neural Networks Based Cross-Domain Paddy Disease Classification: A Deep Learning Approach with Entropy Minimization
   > In our study, we investigate the critical challenge of model generalization across different paddy disease datasets using the Domain-Adversarial Neural Networks (DANN) architecture. … source accuracy 95.05 indicates that the label predictor performs well on the source domain. The low entropy loss with 0.22 exhibits that the model can produce confident predictions on the unlabeled target domain. Th
04717|Allergy to Cannabis Pollen in a Changing World
   > [no term] Globally, the family of Cannabaceae (hemp) — dicotyledonous plants of the order Rosaceae Rosales (formerly the order Urticales nettle) includes two allergenic genera, namely: hemp and hops. It is estimated
04718|Balancing Accuracy and Efficiency in Wind Power Prediction: A Novel IFE-MLP Approach for Resource-Constrained Environments
   > mechanisms. Unlike classical transfer learning paradigms that rely on parameter transfer or domain adaptation, the proposed model achieves competitive prediction accuracy through intelligent feature construction
04719|Editorial Issue 32.6
   > analytics for their designs. The authors conducted a case study to showcase cross-domain applicability of their service-based platform, and a user study to evaluate the
04720|Coding‐complete genome sequencing suggests that Newcastle disease virus challenge strain Herts’33 (IVMP) may represent a distinct genotype Enikő Fehe
   > [no abstract]
04721|A Lightweight YOLOv9 Agricultural Detection Algorithm Based on GhostConv and Coordinate Attention
   > [no term] In modern agricultural production, bird pecking and wild animal intrusion pose serious threats to crop security, highlighting the urgent need for efficient and lightweight object detection algorithms capable of real-time
04722|Smart Trap Detecting the Whitefly Pest using Deep Neural Networks
   > [no term] This study analyzes the suitability of using convolutional neural network designs for detecting the whitefly pest in different agricultural contexts. The goal of this research work is to develop a
04723|An Empirical Study of Vehicle Re-Identification on the AI City Challenge
   > [no term] This paper introduces our solution for the Track2 in AI City Challenge 2021 (AICITY21). The Track2 is a vehicle re-identification (ReID) task with both the real-world data and synthetic data.
04724|From Single-Cell Emergent Behaviors to Clinical Outcome: PTEN-driven Migratory Efficiency as a Potential New Vulnerability in Glioblastoma
   > [no term] Background Glioblastoma (GB) is a highly aggressive brain tumor with a median survival of approximately 14 months, primarily due to its ability to infiltrate healthy brain tissue both as single
04725|Predicting the Potential Risk Area of the Invasive Plant Galinsoga parviflora in Tibet Using the MaxEnt Model
   > SSP585), the potential risk area expands more rapidly, and the center of distribution shifts to northwest regions. These findings provide useful information about the current
04726|Revolutionizing Rice Quality Control: MobileNetV2 for Grain Classification
   > real-time processing. We demonstrate that the model remains robust and efficient under real-world conditions by employing strategies such as data augmentation, model tuning, and hardware
04727|Cross-Regional Transferability of AI Crop-Type Mapping: Insights and Challenges
   > classifiers using Sentinel-2 imagery. These models were then evaluated and applied to cross-crop type classification between Baraouéli (Mali) and Karamoja (Uganda) to assess the transferability of machine learning models. While the models demonstrated strong local performance, achieving high overall accuracy in their respective regions, their performance declined when transferred between regions. 
04728|Keep Your Friends Close, and the Right Neighbours Closer: Disaster-Conditioned Kernel-Regularized Graph Attention for Building Damage Classification
   > positive Moran's~I in prediction residuals. We evaluate the method under event and dataset shift with a leave-one-event-out (LOEO) protocol on xBD and cross-dataset transfer from xBD to Ida-BD. The model improves macro-F1 and substantially reduces … spatial context rather than naive smoothing and enabling more reliable transfer to unseen events within known disaster types.
04729|Distribution and Climatic Adaptation of Wild Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.) Populations in Mexico
   > [no term] Tomato (Solanum lycopersicum L.) is a vegetable with worldwide importance. Its wild or close related species are reservoirs of genes with potential use for the generation of varieties tolerant or
04730|SheepDA-YOLO: Cross-Domain Adaptive Mean Teacher with Dual-Path Decoupling for Sheep Behavior Recognition
   > advancement of smart farming towards large-scale livestock operations, the demand for model generalization in cross-pen behavior recognition has significantly increased. Traditional deep learning models suffer from substantial performance degradation due to variations in illumination and structure across different sheep pens, often necessitating the re-annotation of tens of thousands of frames for
04731|Diversity Helps: Unsupervised Few-shot Learning via Distribution Shift-based Data Augmentation
   > [no abstract]
04732|Utilisation of visible/near-infrared hyperspectral images to classify aflatoxin B1 contaminated maize kernels
   > [no abstract]
04733|Artificial Neural Network (ANN) With Chan-Vese(CV) Algorithm-Based Plant Disease Detection And Classification
   > sector, however, has several difficulties, such as the different climatic conditions in other regions of our country that give rise to various infectious diseases in … depending on the outcomes of the ANN algorithm. A transfer learning model trained on a dataset of ill leaves on an essential background is then
04734|On the automatic detection and monitoring of Leaves and Grapes using in-field optical cameras
   > existing input images. Then, we train a segmentation algorithm using DaFormer with Domain Adaptation via Cross-domain Mixed Sampling (DACS) for accurate segmentation of both leaves and grapes. Additionally,
04735|Meta-Exploiting Complementary Semantic Consistency for Cross-Domain Few-Shot Learning Promotion
   > Meta-learning has emerged as an effective solver for cross-domain few-shot learning (CD-FSL) tasks. Despite achieving obvious progress recently, the typical episodic … (e.g., color, style, background) that are only sufficient to distinguish categories in source domain, while fail to generalize across domains. To mitigate this problem, we present a novel meta-learning framework
04736|Rapid and non-destructive prediction of C-organic in agricultural soil using near infrared reflectance spectroscopy (NIRS)
   > [no abstract]
04737|Unsupervised Domain Adaptation Methods for Land Cover Mapping with Optical Satellite Image Time Series
   > scenario, the possibility to transfer a model learnt on a particular year (source domain) to another period of time (target domain) could be a valuable tool to deal with the previously mentioned restrictions. In this paper, we provide an experimental evaluation of recent Unsupervised Domain Adaptation (UDA) methods in the specific context of temporal transfer learning for SITS-based LCM. The objec
04738|Enhancing Domain Generalization in Crop and Weed Segmentation via Entropy Minimization
   > entropy minimisation mechanism, promoting learning from diverse data sources. To further enhance generalisation across different fields, we employ instance selective whitening, which enables the network
04739|Using artificial intelligence (AI) for grapevine disease detection based on images
   > [no term] Nowadays, diseases are one of the major threats to sustainable viticulture. Manual detection through visual surveys, usually done by agronomists, relies on symptom identification and requires an enormous amount of
04740|Assessing South Africa’s Potential to Address Climate Change Impacts and Adaptation in the Fisheries Sector
   > food security for small-scale and subsistence fishers. Climate-driven impacts have resulted in distribution shifts and declines in abundance of important fisheries targets, with negative consequences
04741|Application Research on Detection of Edge Characteristics of Tea Garden Disease Based on UAV Inspection
   > pests and diseases with high similarity across some diseases, different seasons, and different regions, particularly the expression of color tea image features.
04742|Partitioning of arsenic in low and high arsenic accumulating rice (Oryza sativa) cultivars
   > [no term] In view of limited information, an attempt has been made to work out the distribution pattern of arsenic (As) between root and shoot of high and low grain-As accumulating rice
04743|PERFORMANCE PREDICTION OF FACE CLASSIFICATION ALGORITHM USING CONVOLUTION NEURAL NETWORKS ON DIFFERENT PLATFORMS
   > [no abstract]
04744|M EASURING THE P REDICTIVE H ETEROGENEITY
   > [no abstract]
04745|A Deep Learning-based Intelligent Wild Boar Repellent Device
   > [no term] Recently, wild animals such as wild boars have been causing severe crop damage not only in urban areas but also in rural areas. Therefore, farmers have installed wild animal repelling
04746|THE IMPACT OF SOCIO-ECONOMIC FACTORS OF HORTICULTURAL FARMERS ON ACCESS TO MICROFINANCE IN EAST JAVA
   > [no term] Almost all corporate financing in the agriculture sector is dependent on interest. Because the features of the agricultural sector are incompatible with the finance sector, banks often show little interest
04747|Binding Interactions between Plant-Based Phenolic Chemicals and Horseradish Peroxidase
   > [no abstract]
04748|Design of a disease identification system for wild jujube trees based on K210 and MobileNetV2
   > [no term] This paper aims to solve the problems in the identification of wild jujube trees diseases, and constructs an intelligent classification system based on deep learning technology. By fully analyzing the
04749|The Cost of Becoming: Developmental Encoding Increases Phenotypic Diversity but Reduces Locality and Recombination Robustness in Evolved Robots
   > developmental encoding does not reliably exceed direct encoding in final training or out-of-distribution fitness. It does, however, substantially increase final population phenotypic diversity and mutant-reachable … enlarge the neighborhood of reachable phenotypes and provide within-development damage attenuation while degrading the local inheritance of already-adapted structure. We argue that dev
04750|Predicting rice yield for Bangladesh by exploiting weather conditions
   > [no abstract]
04751|Weed Detection in Farms using A.I. Automated Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
   > [no abstract]
04752|Climate stress and its impact on livestock health, farming livelihoods and antibiotic use in Karnataka, India
   > be replicated to investigate other diseases (including in humans and plants) and other regions, irrespective of scale, as long as the climate and epidemiological data … FOA and WHO) on antimicrobial resistance as disease risk cannot be considered independent of climate change. One Health Impact Statement This research aims to investigate
04753|Native Monkey Detection Using Deep Convolution Neural Network
   > [no abstract]
04754|A Spatio-temporal Hybrid Deep Learning Architecture for Short-term Solar Irradiance Forecasting
   > and ResNet/multilayer perceptron (MLP) using seventeen years of meteorological data from twelve different sites in Philadelphia. Our experiments show that the proposed architecture integrating special
04755|Laplacian Filter Embedding based Attention Network for Land Segmentation from Remote Sensing Images
   > on the basis of SegNet encoder part, aggregate the context information of different regions, and improve the ability to obtain global information, LFAN will brings
04756|Discrimination Of Geographical Origin Of Blueberry From Three Major Producing Areas Of China Using Mineral Element Analyses
   > the element concentrations, and statistically significant differences were found among samples from different regions. Linear discriminant analysis (LDA), decision tree (DT), multilayer perceptron neural network
04757|Using variations in High Arctic vegetation spectral properties to predict various types of plant, soil, and environmental variables.
   > In comparison to other regions, the High Arctic is experiencing accelerated rates of warming (Meredith et
04758|Error and Uncertainty in Earth Observation Value Chains
   > [no term] Earth observation systems are providing a growing amount of high resolution and multi-spectral data including agricultural crop yield predictions, local weather forecasts, wild fire tracking, and water quality monitoring. With
04759|Analysis of Machine Learning Technique for Crop Selection and Prediction of Crop Cultivation
   > machine learning algorithm and prediction accuracy, this model can help farmers at different locations for crop cultivation management.
04760|RNA profiling to understand early inflammatory response in keratinocytes"
   > [no abstract]
04761|Evolution and Classification of Cannabis sativa (Marijuana, Hemp) in Relation to Human Utilization
   > [no term] Cannabis sativa has been employed for thousands of years, primarily as a source of a stem fiber (both the plant and the fiber termed “hemp”) and a resinous intoxicant (the
04762|Eggplant Yield Prediction Utilizing 130 Locally Collected Genotypes and Machine Learning Model
   > a machine learning approach for precise eggplant yield prediction using data from different regions of Bangladesh, analyzing three regression algorithms such as categorical boosting regression
04763|Unsupervised Few-shot Learning via Distribution Shift-based Augmentation
   > this paper, we develop a novel framework called \emph{Unsupervised Few-shot Learning via Distribution Shift-based Data Augmentation} (ULDA), which pays attention to the distribution diversity inside … improvement. In the experiments, few-shot models learned by ULDA can achieve superior generalization performance and obtain state-of-the-art results in a variety of established few-shot learning
04764|Wearable Computing Technology for Assessment of Cognitive Functioning of Bipolar Patients and Healthy Controls
   > [no term] Mobile cognitive tests have been emerged to first, bring the assessments outside the clinics and second, frequently measure individuals' cognitive performance in their free-living environment. Patients with Bipolar Disorder (BD)
04765|Enhancing biotechnological approaches for the in vitro micropropagation: Protecting endangered wild tulip species in Samarkand, Uzbekistan
   > boasts a globally recognized ornamental value. Anthropogenic influences have precipitated a decline in the wild populations of Tulipa, including those in Uzbekistan, necessitating the development
04766|IrrMap: A Large-Scale Comprehensive Dataset for Irrigation Method Mapping
   > a complete pipeline for dataset generation, enabling researchers to extend IrrMap to new regions for irrigation data collection or adapt it with minimal effort for
04767|Machine Learning Framework for Crop Yield Prediction under Climate Variability
   > crop development stages. These features are used to train XGBoost models with cross-year validation, while SHAP analysis provides interpretability of climate impacts. Evaluation using CY-Bench
04768|Convolution neural network in precision agriculture for plant image recognition and classification
   > [no abstract]
04769|Strategi Distribusi Beras Pada Perusahaan Perseorangan Padi Sejati di Kecamatan Srono, Kabupaten Banyuwangi
   > [no term] This research aims to examine distribution strategies relating to the determination and management of distribution channels used by producers to distribute products so that they can reach consumers. This research
04770|THE USE OF NDVI PROFILES FOR ESTIMATING THE QUALITY OF ARABLE LANDS (EXEMPLIFIED BY THE BAKSAN REGION IN KABARDINO-BALKARIA)
   > of the main agricultural crops in this Republic, being applicable in the other regions of the Russian Federation.
04771|Yolov8:A Cutting-Edge Approach To Prevent Wildlife Encroachment
   > [no term] Wild animals entering human settlements and agricultural lands pose a significant threat to crops, livestock and human safety. Traditional deterrent methods such as fencing, scarecrows and manual monitoring are often
04772|A Lightweight Bamboo Shoot Segmentation Method Based on Deep Convolutional Network
   > segmentation. First, an experiment was designed to collect images of bamboo shoots in the wild, and a training set and a test set were constructed
04773|An Advanced Deep Learning Framework for Proactive Potato Leaf Disease Detection to Revolutionize Agriculture
   > deep-learning framework for proactively detecting potato leaf diseases. The CNN model is trained on various potato leaf images captured using in-field imaging techniques to simulate real-world conditions. This method addresses dataset diversity and symptom complexity issues, resulting in
04774|IDDF2018-ABS-0178 Construction of colorectal cancer subtypes based on stroma-specific gene expression and prediction of drug response
   > [no term] Background Gene expression profiling has been used to classify molecular subtypes in colorectal cancer (CRC). Given that tumour transcriptome signals not only derive from cancer cells but also from tumour
04775|Classification of agricultural soil parameters in India
   > [no abstract]
04776|Plant super-barcode: a case study on genome-based identification for closely related species of Fritillaria
   > genomes revealed that the intergenic spacer regions were highly divergent compared with other regions. By constructing the phylogenetic tree by the maximum likelihood and maximum
04777|Optimización del abastecimiento de materiales para ensamblaje automotriz mediante el balanceo de líneas productivas
   > [no abstract]
04778|Science-Guided Multi-Task Deep Learning for Emulating APSIM Simulations for Root-zone Soil Moisture Forecasting
   > 11 depth layers evaluate accuracy under a standard held-out test split, spatial generalization to unseen stations, and temporal generalization to a future year. Across architectures, delta-aware training consistently improves forecasting performance relative to direct level prediction and simple baselines, with the strongest gains appearing under distribution shift.
04779|CDP: Composable Diffusion Policy for Manipulation
   > enables robots to acquire manipulation skills from demonstrations, but end-to-end policies often generalize poorly under distribution shift and require extensive data. We present Composable Diffusion Policy (CDP), a … scales. The results show that CDP have better data efficiency and stronger generalization. Real-robot experiments on a JAKA S5 platform with global and wrist cameras
04780|Constrained Prompt Enhancement for Improving Zero-Shot Generalization of Vision-Language Models
   > Vision-language models (VLMs) pre-trained on web-scale data exhibit promising zero-shot generalization but often suffer from semantic misalignment due to domain gaps between pre-training … set of visual prompts, we introduce two set-to-set matching strategies based on test-time adaptation (TTA) and optimal transport (OT) to achieve effective visual-textual alignment, and so improve zero-shot gener
04781|Interpretable ultra-short-term photovoltaic power forecasting with multi-scale temporal modeling and variable-wise attention
   > grid operation but remains difficult due to nonlinear multi-scale dynamics and seasonal distribution shifts. This work presents MKAN-iTransformer, a cascaded framework that integrates two existing
04782|Determination of distribution areas and reserves for state accounting of Tajik Kavrak (Ferula Tadshikorum Pimenov) resources in the flora of Surkhanda
   > [no term] During the 1970s and 1980s, the chemical composition of more than 50 species found in Central Asia was studied, and about 250 terpenoid substances were isolated from them. Due to
04783|IntronTE: A Deep Learning Classification Model for Plant Intron Transposition Elements
   > at the order level and 96.25 % at the superfamily level. In independent tests on Arabidopsis, rice, maize, and soybean, the classification accuracy exceeded 90% … baseline model, Terrier. IntronTE demonstrates high performance in classification accuracy, robustness, and cross-species generalization ability. It provides an effective tool for studying plant intronic TEs and
04784|Enhancing Farm Security: Animal Intrusion Detection using YOLO
   > [no term] Intrusion by farm animals poses a serious threat to the economic stability of farmers, causing unsustainable losses. Agriculture, being the cornerstone of the Indian economy, has faced growing challenges in
04785|UvA-DARE ( Digital Academic Repository ) Chemotaxonomy of domesticated grasses : a pathway to understanding the origins of agriculture
   > [no abstract]
04786|Adversarial Consistent Learning on Partial Domain Adaptation of PlantCLEF 2020 Challenge
   > Domain adaptation is one of the most crucial techniques to mitigate the domain shift problem, which exists when transferring knowledge from an abundant labeled sourced domain to a target domain with few or no labels. Partial domain adaptation addresses the scenario when target categories are only a subset of source categories. In this paper, to enable the efficient representation of cross-domain p
04787|LUNG CANCER BRAIN METASTASES DIGITAL IMAGE
   > [no abstract]
04788|Using robotic aircraft and intelligent surveillance systems for orange hawkweed detection
   > [no abstract]
04789|Application of Super-Resolution (SR) for Thrips Detection and Classification
   > [no term] This study presents an advanced automatic thrips counting and classification system, leveraging a novel SuperResolution (SR) technique, named KSVD_DR to enhance image analysis accuracy. We developed and validated detection models
04790|Drought indices: aggregation is necessary or is it only the researcher's choice?
   > data, which is considered a paramount issue while applying these indices in other regions. Therefore, there is still comprehensive work needed for the simple integration
04791|SOFS-Rice: Self-Organized Field-Session Discovery and Risk-Aware Domain Generalization for Robust Rice Disease Diagnosis across Benchmark and North-In
   > [no abstract]
04792|Deepmyco: Large Language Models for Scaling Mycoremediation
   > over time. Experimental validation using Trametes versicolor demonstrated successful decolorization under varied real-world conditions and confirmed predictive accuracy (Root Mean Square Error as low as
04793|Domain Generalization for Crop Segmentation with Standardized Ensemble Knowledge Distillation
   > a real-time perception system that understands their surroundings and identifies their targets in the wild. Existing methods, however, often fall short in generalizing to new crops and environmental conditions. This limit is critical for practical … the problem of crop segmentation and propose a novel approach to enhance domain generalization using knowledge distillation. In the proposed framework
04794|A Multimodal Vision: Language Framework for Intelligent Detection and Semantic Interpretation of Urban Waste
   > [no term] Urban waste management remains a significant challenge for achieving environmental sustainability and advancing smart city infrastructures. This study proposes a multimodal vision–language framework that integrates real-time object detection with automated
04795|Crop Classification Based on Time Series MODIS EVI and Ground Observation for Three Adjoining Years in Xinjiang.
   > [no abstract]
04796|A novel fault diagnosis method for unknown faults in nuclear power plants considering domain adaptation and spatio-temporal feature fusion
   > [no abstract]
04797|A federated deep domain adaptation‐based framework for nuclear power steam turbines considering privacy‐preserving
   > which hinders its further development. To address this challenge, a federated deep domain adaptation‐based framework considering privacy‐preserving (FL‐DDA) is proposed for operations and maintenance in … FL‐DDA framework proves to outperform its peers in vibration fault diagnosis and domain adaptation.
04798|Long-Term Spatio-Temporal Pattern of Urban Heat Island Effect of Land Use/ Cover Changes: A Case Study of Hangzhou, China
   > algorithm, land surface temperature (LST) was derived from Landsat images in 7 different years between 1992 and 2022. Secondly, LUC information in each of these
04799|The Neonicotinoid Imidacloprid Impairs Learning, Locomotor Activity Levels, and Sucrose Solution Consumption in Bumblebees (Bombus terrestris)
   > [no term] Bumblebees carry out the complex task of foraging to provide for their colonies. They also conduct pollination, an ecosystem service of high importance to both wild plants and entomophilous crops.
04800|Optimized Soil Fertility Classification and Crop Recommendation using Random Forest, XGBoost, and Neural Networks
   > testing methods, although widely used, are slow, labor-intensive, and often inconsistent across different regions, making it difficult for farmers to select the most suitable crops.
04801|A Versatile Phenotyping System and Analytics Platform Reveals Diverse Temporal Responses to Water Availability in Setaria.
   > and visible images. Plant Computer Vision (PlantCV) was developed as open-source, hardware platform-independent software for quantitative image analysis. In a 4-week experiment, wild Setaria viridis
04802|Impact of Self Help Groups on Rural Women Empowerment: A Case Study of Mokokchung District, Nagaland, India
   > with mean annual income increasing from ` 62,966.67 to ` 1,28,300. Income distribution shifted entirely from below ` 1,00,000 to higher brackets, with 83.89% earning
04803|GANana: Unsupervised Domain Adaptation for Volumetric Regression of Fruit
   > [no term] 3D reconstruction of fruit is important as a key component of fruit grading and an important part of many size estimation pipelines. Like many computer vision challenges, the 3D reconstruction
04804|Physics Guided Neural Networks for Time-Aware Fairness: An Application in Crop Yield Prediction
   > different weather conditions and soil properties. More importantly, the fairness is often degraded when existing methods are applied to different years due to the change of weather conditions and farming practices. To … can significantly improve the predictive performance and preserve the spatial fairness when generalized to different years.
04805|Survival vs. growth trade-off in early recruitment challenges global warming impacts on Mediterranean mountain trees
   > plant species worldwide. However, there is still no clear evidence showing a generalised direction and magnitude of these distribution shifts. Here, we have surveyed, in nine mountainous regions in Spain, an
04806|GENETIC DIVERSITY OF FRUITS IN WILD JUJUBE (Ziziphus lotus L. DESF.) NATURAL POPULATIONS FROM ALGERIA
   > model, classify the nine populations in two main clusters. This classification seems independent to climate change.
04807|Adapting Video Diffusion Models for Time-Lapse Microscopy
   > We present a domain adaptation of video diffusion models to generate highly realistic time-lapse microscopy videos … cellular behaviors such as mitosis and migration. Notably, the fine-tuned model also generalizes beyond the training horizon, generating coherent cell dynamics even in extended sequences.
04808|A Review of Lightweight Object Detection Technologies for Densely Occluded Scenarios in Agricultural Fields
   > technologies from a problem-driven perspective, focusing on the interaction between occlusion-induced feature degradation and limited model capacity under real-world conditions. Unlike existing surveys that mainly summarize model evolution or application scenarios, … caused by complex physical factors. Specifically, we analyze the mechanisms underlying feature degradation arising from morphologica
04809|WaveNet based Autoencoder Model: Vibration Analysis on Centrifugal Pump for Degradation Estimation.
   > on pump operation and maintenance. Therefore, it is important to understand the degradation status of the pumping system for optimizing the operational procedures and maintenance … looking at the power spectrum density of the vibrational signal measured on different locations of the pump. However, such vibration analysis requires substantial domain knowledge
04810|Utilization of Google Earth Engine (GEE) for land cover monitoring over Klang Valley, Malaysia
   > by performing classification of Klang Valley area from Landsat composites of three different years (1988-2003-2018) using multiple Machine Learning Algorithms (MLA). The best classification results
04811|Machine Learning Models for Crop Yield Prediction and a Smart Irrigation System
   > needed for crop prediction and can be applied to other crops in other regions of the world.
04812|Detection of Northern Corn Leaf Blight Disease in Real Environment Using Optimized YOLOv3
   > [no term] New York State's second top agricultural product is maize and they are the fourth largest producer in the nation. Maize diseases, in particular northern corn leaf blight (NLB). Detection of
04813|Multivariate analysis for the assessment of herbaceous roadsides vegetation of Wah Cantonment.
   > [no abstract]
04814|Selenium and hazardous elements distribution in plant–soil–water system and human health risk assessment of Lower Cambrian, Southern Shaanxi, China
   > [no abstract]
04815|Automatic morphology phenotyping of tetra- and hexaploid wheat spike using computer vision methods
   > [no term] Intraspecific classification of cultivated plants is necessary for the conservation of biological diversity, study of their origin and their phylogeny. The modern cultivated wheat species originated from three wild diploid
04816|A Dual-Dataset Study on Deep Learning-Based Tropical Fruit Classification
   > augmenting data enhanced the resilience of the model. ResNet50 and VGG16 demonstrated domain adaptation tests with testing accuracies of $85 \%$ and $86 \%$, respectively.
04817|Telomere Length and Telomerase Assay Assist in Identifying Novel Telomere Gene Complex Mutations in a Cohort of Patients with Aplastic Anemia
   > [no abstract]
04818|Self-Supervised Plant Phenotyping by Combining Domain Adaptation with 3D Plant Model Simulations: Application to Wheat Leaf Counting at Seedling Stage
   > 2 million labels). The realism of the images was then improved using domain adaptation methods before training deep learning models. The results demonstrate the efficiency … over 2,162 labels). Among the 6 combinations of deep learning models and domain adaptation techniques, the Faster-RCNN model with cycle-consistent generative adversarial network adaptation technique
04819|Prototype-Driven Diffusion Transformer for Multimode Industrial Soft Sensing
   > PD-DiffFormer consistently outperforms several representative baselines in terms of prediction accuracy and generalization. Note to Practitioners—Soft sensors are widely used in process industries for online estimation of quality variables, but their performance often degrades in practice due to multimode operation, strong nonlinearity, and the lack of … per-mode model is difficult to maintain and
04820|Real-Time Hardware-In-The-Loop Simulation of IoT-Enabled Mini Water Treatment plant
   > The proposed system consisted of two sets of equipment, each representing a different location of the water storage tank at the target deployment site, with
04821|Baseline physiological data and enzymatic valorization of fishery waste for female Odontesthes argentinensis nutrition
   > [no term] This study investigated the energy storage patterns in wild female Odontesthes argentinensis collected during autumn in the coastal waters of Mar del Plata (Argentina) to assess their suitability as breeders
04822|Best Practices for Large-Scale, Pixel-Wise Crop Mapping and Transfer Learning Workflows
   > [no abstract]
04823|Transferability of species distribution models for the detection of an invasive alien bryophyte using imaging spectroscopy data
   > and Belgium and ii) test the potential of combining calibration data from different sites in one species distribution model (SDM). In a first step, four … used to generate all SDMs. In a second step, each model was transferred to the three other study areas and the performance of the models
04824|Intelligent Identification Method of Valve Internal Leakage in Thermal Power Station Based on Improved Kepler Optimization Algorithm-Support Vector Re
   > getting stuck in local optima and overfitting during the optimization process. An Out-Of-Distribution (OOD) test was conducted for two scenarios: noise injection and Region-Holdout. The identification performance of all six methods decreased, with IKOA-SVR showing the smallest performance decline. The results show that IKOA-SVR has the strongest generalization ability and robustness, the best effe
04825|Perspectives and Challenges of Machine Learning for Applications in Agriculture and Vegetation Using Remote Sensing
   > temporal resolution in vegetation analysis. Despite notable progress, several limitations remain. Model transferability across regions and sensors is still constrained and multi-source data integration often
04826|Insights into the gut microbiome of local steppe-vegetation inhabitant bees: microbial community analysis of Bombus niveatus niveatus, Bombus niveatus
   > [no term] Abstract Bumble bees and honey bees are pollinivorous and nectarivorous insects. We classify them as “important pollinators” because of their feeding behaviors. The gut microbiota of these pollinators is essential
04827|Visual detection and fruit selection by the mantled howler monkey (Alouatta palliata)
   > Howler monkeys (platyrrhini) have evolved routine trichromatic color vision independently from catarrhines, which presents an opportunity to test hypotheses concerning the adaptive … more unripe fruits than ripe fruits. The consumption (acceptance) of fruit was independent of sucrose content, and thus this disaccharide may not play an essential
04828|Exploiting Multi-granularity Features for Unsupervised Domain Adaptation Person Re-identification
   > label noise, many schemes try to correct the feature learning of the target domain with the help of labeled source domain data. However, because of domain gap, the discrimination of source domain is difficult to be transferred directly to the target domain. To overcome this problem, we propose a Sub Domain Specified Batch … camera-level data of the two domains, thus person classifiers learned in t
04829|Predicted Regional and National Distribution of Bactrocera dorsalis (syn. B. invadens) (Diptera: Tephritidae) in Southern Africa and Implications for 
   > [no term] Since its detection in Kenya in 2003, the exotic fruit fly, Bactrocera dorsalis, has rapidly spread throughout sub-Saharan Africa. This study was conducted to predict the potential distribution of B.
04830|Inducing Causal Meta-Knowledge From Virtual Domain: Causal Meta-Generalization for Hyperspectral Domain Generalization
   > Cross-domain hyperspectral image (HSI) classification can improve the model’s classification performance in the target domain by utilizing the rich knowledge from the source domain. However, existing cross-domain HSI classification methods mostly belong to transductive learning, which is difficult to apply to domain generalization tasks where the target domain is unseen during model learning. Insp
04831|Quantifying time-series of leaf morphology using 2D and 3D photogrammetry methods for high-throughput plant phenotyping
   > [no abstract]
04832|AdapterMoE: A Two-Stage Hard-Routing Mixture-of-Experts Architecture for Multi-Crop Disease Recognition with Calibrated Rejection and Incremental Lear
   > non-target crops via a Maximum Softmax Probability threshold, with a dual-gate Energy+KNN out-of-distribution module catching distribution-shifted inputs; five per-crop Adapters atop a frozen EfficientNet-B0 backbone
04833|AI in Agriculture: Federated Learning CNNs for Sunflower Leaf Disease Diagnosis
   > data to global data, where federated averaging enabled combining numerous learnings from different locations into a comprehensive picture of the sunflower leaf disease level worldwide.
04834|Enhancing Drought Tolerance and Striga hermonthica Resistance in Maize Using Newly Derived Inbred Lines from the Wild Maize Relative, Zea diploperenni
   > 7 and TZdEEI 12 × TZEEI 95. These hybrids should be extensively tested on-farm for potential commercialization in SSA. Overall, our results highlighted the importance
04835|A data-centric multi-source augmentation framework for deployable traffic sign recognition using YOLOv8-n
   > management of road infrastructure and traffic maintenance systems. Accurate, large-scale monitoring in real-world conditions requires models that balance high performance with computational efficiency. This study … To improve spatial, contextual, and illumination diversity in the training data, three independent augmentation methods were applied: (1) structured cropping of regions of interest (ROI
04836|STUDY OF FLOWERING PLANTS AND VEGETATION COVER IN WADI MANAS JABAL AL-AKHDAR, LIBYA
   > enumerate and classify the flowering plant species that were randomly collected from different regions of the study area during the years 2009-2010. The seeds of
04837|A dataset of aligned RGB and multispectral UAV imagery for semantic segmentation of weedy rice
   > semantic segmentation, vegetation classification, and weed detection. It also facilitates benchmarking and domain adaptation studies to improve model generalization across different modalities.
04838|Beyond tracking climate: Niche shifts during native range expansion and their implications for novel invasions
   > Although ecological niche models have been instrumental in understanding the widespread species distribution shifts under global change, rapid niche shifts limit model transferability to novel locations or time periods. Niche shifts during range expansion have
04839|Domain-Transportable Latent Summaries for Robust Multimodal Autism Phenotyping Under Missing Modality Blocks
   > a hierarchical latent-summary framework for multimodal autism phenotyping under incomplete observation and domain shift. The model separates a shared global latent summary from block-specific latent … by the theory: The first shows the asymmetric block value, nonuniform missing-block degradation, and a near tie between the full block set and a stable
04840|Site Suitability Modelling and Analysis for Large Scale Mechanised Agriculture in South East Nigeria using Geospatial Technology
   > [no abstract]
04841|Learning to Rank: How GNNs Solve Max-Clique and Sparse PCA
   > representations to classical heuristics, improving both interpretability and performance. Finally, we demonstrate cross-domain generalization to sparse PCA, showing that the same GNN architecture and decoding strategy
04842|A precipitation forecasting model using artificial neural network in central ecotone region in Brazil
   > [no abstract]
04843|Altitude as environmental filtering influencing phylogenetic diversity and species richness of plants in tropical mountains
   > [no abstract]
04844|stimating temporal changes in soil carbon stocks at ecoregional scale n Madagascar using remote-sensing
   > [no abstract]
04845|Characterization of phytochemical profile of rhizome of artificial cultured Polygonatum sibiricum with multiple rhizome buds
   > [no term] Rhizome of Polygonatum sibiricum is both a renowned traditional Chinese remedy and a commonly consumed delicacy. Due to the escalating demand and excessive overexploitation, there has been a growing interest
04846|MONITORING OF THE ACTIVITY OF THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR OF UKRAINE AND THE DONETSK REGION IN THE CONDITIONS OF MARTIAL LAW
   > [no term] The article examines the economic situation of the agrarian sphere of Ukraine and the Donetsk region in terms of its ability to produce the necessary amount of agricultural products and
04847|Population and Community Dynamics of Alpine Plants in a Changing Climate Across Topographically Heterogeneous Landscapes
   > [no abstract]
04848|Image recognition of soybean leaf disease based on bilateral branching network BBN
   > Due to the different incidence of different types of soybean diseases in different regions and at different times, the long tail distribution problem of soybean
04849|Prospects of Continual Causality for Industrial Applications
   > [no abstract]
04850|Diploid chromosome-level reference genome and population genomic analyses provide insights into Gypenoside biosynthesis and demographic evolution of G
   > commercial potential, but urgent conservation efforts are needed due to the gradual decreases and fragmented distribution of its wild populations. Here, we report the high-quality
04851|Benchmarking In-the-Wild Multimodal Disease Recognition and A Versatile Baseline
   > remarkable performance in recognizing in-laboratory diseased images. However, their performance often significantly degrades in classifying in-the-wild images. Furthermore, we observed that in-the-wild plant images may
04852|Differential distribution shifts in two subregions of East Asian subtropical evergreen broadleaved forests—a case of Magnoliaceae
   > of western and eastern subregions with different topographical and environmental conditions. The distribution shifts over time of plants in the two subregions are predicted to … subregion experienced increases in range size through downwards and southward migrations, while decreases in range size in the eastern subregion (27/31 species) were accompanied by
04853|Medicinal plants of South India: A comprehensive dataset for species identification
   > to facilitate precise species identification and biodiversity analysis. Images were acquired under real-world conditions, considering variations in illumination, pose, and environmental factors to enhance dataset
04854|Performance Analysis of Fuzzy Logic and Artificial Neural Network for Classifying Hydropower Plant Remotization Technology Readiness
   > hydropower plants have implemented this technology due to varying maturity levels at different sites. Assessing the Technology Readiness Level (TRL) of hydropower plants is crucial
04855|Simulated big sagebrush regeneration supports predicted changes at the trailing and leading edges of distribution shifts
   > the species' range margins. The leading and trailing edges of potential climate-driven distribution shifts are likely to be areas most sensitive to climate change. Although several processes contribute to distribution shifts, regeneration is a fundamental requirement, especially for species with episodic regeneration
04856|430. Investigating cellular phenotypes and genotypes of a preclinical model relevant to schizophrenia using single-cell RNA sequencing
   > [no term] Abstract Background Schizophrenia is a highly heritable neurodevelopmental disorder characterised by disruptions in cortical circuitry and excitatory-inhibitory balance. Converging genetic and post-mortem evidence implicates early dysfunction of GABAergic interneurons, and
04857|Fine-Grained Star Anise Image Recognition Based on Improved ResNet50 with Multi-Scale Feature Fusion
   > is finally incorporated.Using accuracy as the model's evaluation metric, this approach was tested on a self-constructed star anise dataset(containing 5,900 images).The experimental findings showed that
04858|Identifying Geomorphic Process Domains in the Synthetic Landscapes of West Virginia, USA
   > Extremely high chemical weathering of unconsolidated valley fills materials may facilitate process domain shifts from debris flows to gullying and fluvial erosion. The characteristic power
04859|Physiological Profiles as Indicators of Response to Hurricane Disturbance for Three Coastal Wetland Species
   > [no abstract]
04860|Introduction to Spatial First Order Discrete HMM
   > [no abstract]
04861|Climate-mediated dynamics of the northern limit of paddy rice in China
   > However, quantitative studies on the effect of climate change on paddy rice distribution shifts have not been well performed. Here, we mapped the NLPR in
04862|Aquaponic System Design Parameters
   > [no abstract]
04863|Leaf Analyzer: A fully automated and open-source tool for high-throughput leaf trait measurement
   > [no term] Accurate and efficient leaf trait measurement is essential for plant phenotyping, agronomy, and ecological studies. In this work, we introduce Leaf Analyzer, a novel open-source, fully automated computer vision-based tool
04864|Foundation Models for Phenotyping Segmentation of Wheat Stripe Rust Resistance from UAV Hyperspectral Images
   > is challenging due to high spectral dimensionality, strong spectral-spatial coupling, and temporal domain shift. We present a foundation-modeldriven framework that pairs remote-sensing foundation encoders with … temporal splits and maintains 78.14% mIoU and 85.09% F1 under strict temporal generalization. Ablations verify consistent gains over standard decoding heads. Collectively, these findings v
04865|Estimating root zone storage capacity from flux measurements
   > estimate S<sub>r</sub> from flux measurements, based on a deep neural network approach trained on eddy covariance (EC) data, multiple soil moisture datasets and a remotely … cumulative difference between actual ET and precipitation) experienced by the vegetation across different sites. We hypothesize that plants exposed to high CWD develop higher S<sub>r
04866|Facteurs de fragmentation et stratégies de gestion des massifs forestiers au Burkina Faso.
   > pressions diverses liees a la combinaison des facteurs economiques, politiques, demographiques. Leur degradation constitue une preoccupation majeure pour la preservation de l’environnement. La presente recherche … resultats montrent la repartition des unites d’occupation des terres et l’etat de degradation des massifs forestiers, marquees par la presence d’espaces cultives et divers niveaux
04867|A MACHINE LEARNING APPROACH TO PREDICT SOLAR RADIATION FOR SOLAR ENERGY BASED DEVICES
   > [no abstract]
04868|P1‐490: CEREBRAL AMYLOID DEPOSITION IS ASSOCIATED WITH IMPAIRED MOBILITY
   > [no abstract]
04869|Dynamic Weight-Optimized Prototypical Contrastive Network for Cross-Domain Few-Shot Bearing Fault Diagnosis
   > distribution caused by environmental factors, the performance of well-trained laboratory models has decreased significantly when confronted with actual industrial bearing fault diagnosis. The existing domain adaptation methods using cross-domain labeled samples for classification make it difficult to resist the influence of … the above issues, a dynamic weight-optimized prototypical contrastive ne
04870|PetalVisionX: Grad-CAM-Driven Interpretable CNN Approach for Multiclass Flower Classification
   > diversity, colour variation, and changing environmental parameters present considerable difficulties to high generalisation. This study therefore analyses a collection of convolutional neural network (CNN) models … for both accuracy and explainability. Future work will explore light-weight architectures for domain adaptation techniques and mobile deployment for crossdataset generalization.
04871|Next-generation modelling approaches for sustainable crop protection
   > [no abstract]
04872|Cross-Modal Spherical Aggregation for Weakly Supervised Remote Sensing Shadow Removal
   > modalities. Specifically, we employ a modal translation (visible-to-infrared) model to learn the cross-domain mapping, thus generating realistic infrared samples. Then, Swin Transformer is utilized to … extracted features are mapped to the smooth spherical manifold, which alleviates the domain shift through regularization. Well-designed similarity loss and orthogonality loss are embedded into
04873|Early Recognition of Wheat Powdery Mildew Disease Based on Mask RCNN
   > wheat plant image. An entire of 6200 images has been captured from different regions of Punjab. Among all captured images the images have been preprocessed
04874|A study on Deep Learning based Soil Classification
   > of soil requires analyses of features and characteristics of various soil of different regions. Soil can be classified based on its features like texture, particle
04875|Classification of Brain Magnetic Resonance Imaging Abnormalities and Spectrum of Neurological Findings in a Cohort with Copy Number Variation-Related 
   > epigenetic factors in these cases may have led to the involvement of different regions of the brain. Revealing the phenotypic and genotypic characteristics of cases … epigenetic factors in these cases may have led to the involvement of different regions of the brain. Revealing the phenotypic and genotypic characteristics of cases
04876|Satellite-Based Field Boundaries Detection in India
   > uses the Fractal ResUNet model, an advanced convolutional neural network for FBD, tested on diverse agroclimatic regions using multi-source satellite data. The Fractal ResUNet encoder-decoder … fusion are anticipated to further improve the model accuracy and adaptability across different regions.
04877|Transfer Learning for Transformer‐Based Drought Forecasting Across Diverse Precipitation Products in India
   > drought forecasting across India. We utilized a pre‐trained transformer model, which was trained on the Indian Monsoon Data Assimilation and Analysis (IMDAA) precipitation data set (source domain) from 1979 to 2014. Transfer learning capabilities were evaluated by applying the pre‐trained model without target‐domain adaptation to 11 precipitation products (target data set) differing in source and 
04878|Benchmarking information extraction of physical activity from electronic health record with large language models: an natural language processing pipe
   > [no abstract]
04879|An efficient image classification technique for Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) images
   > 3 years from 2016 to 2018. In this paper, there are 8 different regions in SAR images such as lake, river, sea, forest, barren land,
04880|Buzzing with Intelligence: Current Issues in Apiculture and the Role of Artificial Intelligence (AI) to Tackle It
   > [no term] Simple Summary Worldwide, honeybees (Apis mellifera L.) are involved in pollinating both wild and economically useful plants, while their products are also used by the food and pharmaceutical industries. But
04881|Development of automated UAV LiDAR based blueprint in oil palm replanting on terraces
   > for the deep learning model, and trials of the proposed method at different sites are needed to enhance its robustness and applicability.
04882|Responsible AI from Farm to Finance: A Unified Credit and Carbon Scoring Model for Data-Sparse Rural Economies
   > and SOC classes. Model explainability is ensured via SHAP values, revealing key cross-domain predictors like mobile transaction frequency, rainfall intensity, and cognitive resilience scores [19],
04883|Saltmarsh Boundary Modulates Dispersal of Mangrove Propagules: Implications for Mangrove Migration with Sea-Level Rise
   > [no term] Few studies have empirically examined the suite of mechanisms that underlie the distributional shifts displayed by organisms in response to changing climatic condition. Mangrove forests are expected to move inland
04884|EXTRACTION OF VINEYARD MACROSTRUCTURE FROM SUB-OPTIMAL SEQUENCES OF AERIAL IMAGERY
   > [no term] Abstract. Remote sensing techniques can be used to identify and classify vine properties such as row width, height, cover-fraction, missing segments and leaf area density, providing opportunities to visualise plant
04885|Use Wear Analysis
   > [no abstract]
04886|A Hybrid Framework for Human-Wildlife Conflict Mitigation Using Infrared-Triggered YOLO and IoT Alerting
   > [no term] Human wildlife conflict has become a pressing issue in regions where human activities increasingly overlap with natural habitats. Incidents such as crop destruction, property damage, and human casualties caused by
04887|Beyond Vegetation Indices: Winter Solar Radiation and Soil Properties Drive Wheat Yield Prediction in the Arid Steppes of Kazakhstan Using Gradient Bo
   > accuracy of R2 = 0.69 (RMSE = 0.33 t/ha), while extrapolation to unseen regions yielded R2 = 0.65 (RMSE = 0.35 t/ha), demonstrating the robustness and transferability of the proposed architecture. Application of the TreeSHAP interpretability framework revealed the … than mid-season NDVI in arid rainfed systems. Geospatial analysis identified a pronounced domain shift in foothill and irrigated clus
04888|Decision-Aid Framework for Face Authentication Detection Using ResNext50 and BiLSTM to Enhance Media Integrity
   > work will explore advanced fusion strategies, lightweight architectures for real-time deployment, and cross-dataset generalization to enhance adaptability in diverse, real-world scenarios.
04889|(Sensor Division Outstanding Achievement Award) IoT Enabled Turnkey Solution for Detection of Multiple Vapor Phase Analytes in Real-World Conditions
   > to develop turnkey solution for Detection of Multiple Vapor Phase Analytes in Real-World Conditions. The Big Data generated is then analyzed by Artificial Intelligence/Machine learning
04890|Food security policy choices: A review of the usefulness of public policy taxonomies
   > and are not entirely applicable to food security public policy classification. The domain shift from food policy to food security,and more recently to food systems
04891|Modelling impacts of climate and weather extremes on wheat cropping systems across New South Wales
   > [no abstract]
04892|Domain-invariant and Patch-discriminative Feature Learning for General Deepfake Detection
   > intra-dataset scenario, many of them gain unsatisfying results in the case of cross-dataset testing with more practical value, where the forged faces in training and … and Patch-Discriminative feature learning framework—DI&PD. For image-level feature learning, a single-side adversarial domain generalization is introduced to eliminate domain variances and learn domain-invariant features in
04893|Point Cloud-Based Decision System for Object Detection in Indoor and Outdoor Environments for Autonomous Mobile Robots
   > Rosmaster R2 robot and evaluated for accuracy, recall, and F1-score at 10 different locations, comprising five indoor and five outdoor locations, where people, plants, vehicles,
04894|The TPR family protein VPA1365 regulates biofilm matrix to promote biofilm formation in Vibrio parahaemolyticus
   > Vibrio parahaemolyticus is a notorious foodborne opportunistic pathogen capable of sensing external environmental signals to regulate its survival and virulence. In recent years, this pathogen has been increasingly detected in freshwater foods, indicating a distribution shift from its original marine reservoirs. Biofilm formation plays a crucial role
04895|Depth-Regularized JEPA World Models Learn More Transferable Representations from Real Outdoor Robot Data
   > and on the out-of-domain TartanGround benchmark, and improves multi-step rollout fidelity under domain shift, with gains that grow with rollout horizon. Notably, we also see … geometric prior makes a compact JEPA world model more useful and more transferable on real outdoor data with strong underlying representations, without adding inference overhead.
04896|Hydra-Bench: A Benchmark for Multi-Modal Leaf Wetness Sensing
   > robustness, accuracy, and environmental resilience when applied to natural leaves under dynamic real-world conditions. To address these challenges, we introduce a new multi-modal dataset specifically
04897|Change Detection of Floating Net Cages Quantities Utilizing Faster R-CNN
   > floating net cages plots on the same Region of Interest (RoI) in different years using google earth satellite imagery. The proposed methods apply Faster R-CNN
04898|Description of representative “in-situ” soil profiles in northwestern Tunisia
   > land-use applications. Soil profiling allows for the classification of soil types across different regions, contributing to soil mapping and enabling informed decisions for sustainable soil
04899|Detection and Localisation of Multiple In-Core Perturbations With Neutron Noise-Based Self-Supervised Domain Adaptation
   > the application of the aforementioned approach to real measurements, introducing a self-supervised domain adaptation procedure to align the representation distributions of simulated and real plant
04900|WaterHyacinth: A comprehensive image dataset of various Water hyacinth species from different regions of Bangladesh
   > gathered collection of images featuring four distinct species of Water hyacinth from different regions of Bangladesh, is presented in this article. There are four different
04901|Can virtual staining for high-throughput screening generalize?
   > the potential of models trained under one set of experimental conditions to generalize to other conditions remains underexplored. This study systematically investigates whether data from … conditions) commonly found in HTS can effectively train virtual staining models to generalize across three typical HTS distribution shifts: unseen phenotypes, unseen cell types, and the combination of both. Util
04902|Advancing Heterogeneous Face Recognition Through Convolutional Neural Networks DenseNet
   > on incomplete models or features artificially incapable of fully accounting for complex cross-domain differences Using a densely connected network structure called Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs)
04903|Assessment of Ground Water Pollution Potential Zones for Contract Farming Using Remote Sensing and G.I.S
   > [no abstract]
04904|Object-aware Contrastive Learning for Debiased Scene Representation
   > correlations of different objects or object and background, which may harm their generalization on the downstream tasks. To tackle the issue, we develop a novel
04905|Least developed countries - the case of Burundi
   > mainly the long lasting civil wars, a limited access to land, environmental degradation, climatic shocks and the rapid population growth resulting from the high birth
04906|Widespread slow growth of acquisitive tree species
   > relationships between species functional traits and tree growth2. Here, by consolidating four independent datasets and classifying the acquisitive and conservative species based on their functional … tree species in areas where they can realize their fast-growing potential. In other regions, where environmental stress is higher, conservative tree species have a larger
04907|Research on Profit Allocation of Agricultural Products Co-Delivery Based on Modified Interval Shapley Value
   > [no term] Most of the domestic wholesale markets have many operating entities, and the level of organization and scale is not high; therefore, at this stage, building a shared business platform and
04908|Long-distance movement dynamics shape host microbiome richness and turnover
   > the ecological processes that contribute to community diversity. Furthermore, long-distance movements to new environments are anticipated to occur with increasing frequency due to host distribution shifts resulting from climate change. Understanding how hosts transport their microbiota with … prior research suggest that movement type and frequency, alongside environmental exposure (e.g. internal/e
04909|Signatures of differential selection in chloroplast genome between japonica and indica
   > [no term] The domestication process of Asian rice (Oryza sativa L.) is complicated. It’s well established that Oryza rufipogon is the ancestor of Asian rice, although the number of domestication events still
04910|PlantCaFo: An efficient few-shot plant disease recognition method based on foundation models
   > accuracy improvement of 6.80 % over the baseline. To validate the model's generalization performance, we prepare an out-of-distribution dataset with 21 categories, and our model notably increases the accuracy of
04911|Analytical Model of the Soil Temperature Distribution Based on Weather Data
   >  The measurement of soil temperature profiles for different locations or climates is essential for calculating the thermal performance of applications
04912|SegPPD-FS: Segmenting plant pests and diseases in the wild using few-shot learning
   > [no term] Accurate segmentation of areas affected by pests and diseases is essential for precisely assessing the severity and spread of infections, thereby facilitating the development of effective management and intervention strategies.
04913|Automated Jackfruit Counting and Yield Estimation via Advanced YOLOv8x-Based Computer Vision in Smart Agriculture
   > including rotations, affine transforms, flips, brightness/hue shifts, and Gaussian blur for improved generalization. The YOLOv8x architecture features efficient C2f modules, SPPF pooling, and an anchor-free … 99.28% precision, 85.71% recall, 94.37% mAP@50, and 81.01% mAP@50–95, proving robustness in real-world conditions. The framework enables IoT integration for real-time yield estimation, advanc
04914|YoloV8-Powered Surveillance: Safeguarding Crops from Wildlife and Fire Hazards
   > [no term] Agriculture is the backbone of India’s economy. However, the farmers are facing crop damage due to wild animals encounter and fire. The study has mainly intended to provide a solution
04915|Self-assembled metal oxide (FeOX/MnOX)-synthetic humic-like acid composites enhance heavy metal immobilization and differentially reshape bacterial an
   > cooperation. Both amendments shifted stability maintenance from competition to cooperation, evidenced by decreased cohesion indices and increased positive interactions. Enrichment of key taxa such as
04916|Identifiability-Aware, Cost-Aware Triage of Physical Faults and Measurement-Integrity Anomalies in Energy Cyber-Physical Systems
   > raw-statistics XGBoost benchmark on clean data. Observationally equivalent causes require abstention or independent maintenance, sensor-quality, or security evidence rather than a forced telemetry-only label. Abstract … framework is therefore intended as an auditable triage aid, with ambiguous or out-of-distribution cases routed to review rather than treated as confirmed cyber attribution.
04917|The Path of Codification: A Case Study on the Institutional Construction of Incorporating Wild Plant Protection Systems into the Code
   > [no term] Against the backdrop of codification, it is necessary to consider the legislative status quo and theoretical value of the wild plant protection system. Aiming at the legislative shortcomings such as
04918|Assessment of the spatial and temporal heterogeneity of available phosphorus content in arable soil on the scale of one field (using the example of th
   > recorded in 2011 (494 mg/kg), by 2021 the available phosphorus content is decreasing to the level of 1987 and averages 301 mg/kg. It is analyzed … contribute to the prediction of spatial heterogeneity of available phosphorus content in different years.
04919|PRODUÇÃO DE LAVOURAS SELECIONADAS DE SEQUEIRO NAS REGIÕES CLIMÁTICAS DEFINIDAS PARA O ESTADO DO MARANHÃO, BRASIL
   > was divided; e) Evaluate the aggregate behavior of rainfed crops in these different regions. The data was collected from NOAA (2022), the Statistical Yearbooks and … has ten regions with rainfall regimes whose annual averages differ from one another. It is also clear that the same does not apply to the
04920|DeepSalt: Bridging Laboratory and Satellite Spectra Through Domain Adaptation and Knowledge Distillation for Large-Scale Soil Salinity Estimation
   > comprehensive empirical benchmarks. DeepSalt achieves significant performance gains over methods without explicit domain adaptation, underscoring the impact of the proposed Spectral Adaptation Unit and the knowledge distillation strategy. The model also effectively generalized to unseen geographic regions, explaining a substantial portion of the salinity variance.
04921|Optimasi Penentuan Jumlah Truk Dan Penjadwalan Pengiriman Beras Raskin Dengan Data Penunjang Dari Sistem Informasi Geografis (SIG) Pada Perum Bulog Su
   > [no abstract]
04922|A comprehensive annotated image dataset for deep learning analysis of eggplant leaf diseases
   > March and May 2024 from two major agricultural regions in Bangladesh, representing real-world conditions. It comprises 10 distinct disease classes—Aphids, Cercospora Leaf Spot, Defect Eggplant,
04923|AgroFlow- Smart Agriculture System for Crop Recommendation, Disease Prediction, Market Analysis and Farmer Supports
   > [no term] Agriculture is confronted with a ton of daily issues such as climate changes, plant infections, wild market prices, and lack of good advice to the farmers. Due to this reason,
04924|Tomato Leaf Disease Detection using Enhanced Weight Assignment Based Loss Calculation Method
   > environments, limiting their applicability to real field images. The lack of large-scale non-lab datasets remains a significant challenge in enabling vision-based plant disease detection. This
04925|Overcoming Intrinsic Limitations of Fluorescence Spectroscopy Data in Food Quality and Safety with Machine Learning and Deep Learning
   > fluorescence spectra; and (2) prediction of extra virgin olive oil (EVOO) quality degradation using 2D excitation-emission matrices through DL models with domain adaptation and transfer learning. The results highlight the potential of ML/DL to
04926|Tame a Wild Camera: In-the-Wild Monocular Camera Calibration
   > [no term] 3D sensing for monocular in-the-wild images, e.g., depth estimation and 3D object detection, has become increasingly important. However, the unknown intrinsic parameter hinders their development and deployment. Previous methods for
04927|From Fog Chamber to Aircraft Window: Pixel-Registered Imaging and Synthetic Fine-Tuning Enable Cross-Domain Defogging
   > A deep defogging pipeline pretrained on controlled laboratory fog and fine-tuned with domain-randomized synthetic fog applied to clear outdoor scenes generalizes across a graded sequence of out-of-distribution settings with no target-domain training, from chamber-free free-flowing fog to iPhone video recorded through an aircraft cabin window in flight, an entirely unseen sensor, scene, and optical
04928|Bacterial community data associated with Stephanitis pyri using 16S rRNA gene metabarcoding
   > fact that endosymbionts and other associated microorganisms can shape pest adaptation to new environments, this dataset is intended to serve as a valuable resource for
04929|STU-Mamba: A U-Mamba With Cross-Scale Alignment and Temporal Adaptive Context Gating for Satellite Image Time Series Segmentation
   > to accurately characterize the phenological dynamics of the same crop type across different regions, effectively addressing the spatiotemporal heterogeneity inherent in agricultural landscapes. Finally, we
04930|From Local Details to Global Context: Advancing Vision-Language Models with Attention-Based Selection
   > effectively filter LLM descriptions for better alignment. \textbf{ABS} achieves state-of-the-art performance on out-of-distribution generalization and zero-shot classification tasks. Notably, \textbf{ABS} is training-free and even rivals few-shot and test-time adaptation methods. Our code is available at \href{https://github.com/BIT-DA/ABS}{\textcolor{darkgreen}{https://github.com/BIT-DA/ABS}}.
04931|Towards Autonomous Berry Harvesting using Visual Servoing of Soft Continuum Arm
   > [no abstract]
04932|MPTH-12. TERT PROMOTER MUTATION IS A POOR PROGNOSTIC MARKER FOR GBMS AND INTERACTS WITH MGMT METHYLATION STATUS
   > [no abstract]
04933|Kashmir-MungFormer: An Explainable Multimodal Transformer Framework for Green Gram Moisture-Stress and Yield Prediction under Temperate Conditions
   > Jammu and Kashmir holdout yielded a negative R² (−0.1047), indicating substantial regional domain shift. Accordingly, the benchmark is reported as an exploratory baseline rather than
04934|A Transfer Learning and Image Augmentation Method for Carotid Artery Vulnerable Plaque Segmentation in Ultrasound Images
   > method for segmenting carotid vulnerable plaques. Based on the U-Net encoder-decoder paradigm, cross-domain knowledge from natural images is transferred for plaque segmentation using pre-trained ResNet-50. Besides, a cropped blood vessel image
04935|Step-by-Step Approach to Design Image Classifiers in AI: An Exemplary Application of the CNN Architecture for Breast Cancer Diagnosis
   > modeling is also applied as a part of protocol and hence fusion-data. Cross-dataset evaluations were further conducted, where BUSI was used for training/validation and UBIBC for independent testing, and vice versa, to assess robustness and generalization. The obtained results indicate that the custom CNN and VGG19 (Visual Geometry … and resilient conclusions regarding image classification tasks to
04936|PlantBGC: Transformer for Plant BGC Discovery via Label-Free Domain Adaptation and Weak Supervision
   > learning for modeling long-range domain context and controlling false positives under strong domain shift. We seek an AI-assisted workflow that narrows experimental search space by … genomes as ordered Pfam-domain sequences and learning BGC-likeness with an encoder-only Transformer trained on MIBiG microbial BGCs and adapted to plants via label-free masked language
04937|Panicle-Driven Rice Yield Estimation Using YOLO: A Data-Centric Deep Learning Approach
   > counting using deep learning. The approach leverages a YOLOv5-based object detection model trained on labeled images of rice panicles captured using real-world conditions. The trained model demonstrates strong detection performance across varying orientations and
04938|AI-Driven Drought Management System: A Turkish Case Study
   > solutions. Ultimately, our research offers a means to monitor weather conditions in different regions of Turkey, moving beyond manual drought prediction and guesswork that were
04939|Lightweight CNN Architectures for Edge-Based Post-Harvest Quality Control in Organic Tomatoes
   > is trained and evaluated across these checkpoints to assess its ability to generalize under domain shift. Experimental results show that AlexNet achieves classification accuracy of 99% on
04940|Müller cell metabolic chaos during retinal degeneration
   > [no term] Müller cells play a critical role in retinal metabolism and are among the first cells to demonstrate metabolic changes in retinal stress or disease. The timing, extent, regulation, and impacts
04941|CHARACTERISTICS OF YOUNG HORTICULTURAL FARMERS IN MALANG REGENCY
   > [no term] The horticulture subsector occupies a strategic position in the development of Indonesia's agriculture sector. Farmers have an important role in developing agriculture and promoting the agricultural sector in Indonesia. Therefore
04942|A Contemporary CNN Implanted Deep Learning Framework for Crop Protection from Animal Intrusion in Farming Environment
   > farmers endure severe risks from pests, natural disasters and animal damage resulting decreases the production process. To inspect crops and prevent animals from roaming farmers
04943|Synthesizing hyperspectral Data using generative Models to train spectral Unmixing Methods for low-cost Crop Residue Cover Mapping
   > this leads to falsely approximated data manifolds, ultimately resulting in unsatisfactory and out-of-distribution unmixing performance.
04944|Reintroduction of Curly Birch
   > forest tree flora. Importantly, the curly birch from the reintroductions performed in different years and different edaphic and climatic conditions steadily retains its key biological
04945|A Sample Spatiotemporal Expansion Method for Mapping Autumn-Harvested Crops in Cloudy and Rainy Areas
   > scenarios, augmenting the sample size may enhance classification accuracy. Compared with the cross-year reuse of historical samples method, the classification accuracy for rice and maize
04946|Inferring the demographic history of an oligophagous grasshopper: Effects of climatic niche stability and host-plant distribution.
   > [no abstract]
04947|Distribution and habitat modeling of Dactylorhiza hatagirea (D. Don) Soo, Paris polyphylla Sm. and Taxus species in Nepal Himalaya
   > [no term] Abstract Medicinal plants are key components of the livelihoods of rural people, who rely on forest resources in the Nepal Himalaya, and this reliance is particularly high in hills and
04948|Transferring digit classifier's features to a traffic sign detector
   > [no abstract]
04949|Explainable AI for clove quality grading: Benchmarking post hoc XAI and compositional interpretability under domain shift
   > explainers yielding different results for the same classifier. Under a synthetic background‐replacement domain shift, robustness differs despite similar in‐domain performance. LIME performs well on transformers
04950|Phylogenetic and evolutionary applications of analyzing endocarp morphological characters by classification binary tree and leaves by SSR markers for 
   > [no abstract]
04951|DISTRIBUTION OF TARGET ORGAN DAMAGE IN HYPERTENSIVES. DATA FROM SEPHAR III – A POPULATION SURVEY
   > [no term] Objective: The aim of our study was to find out the distribution of TOD in hypertensive subjects of SEPHAR III population survey (Study for the Evaluation of Prevalence of Hypertension
04952|A maximin-minimax approach for identifying drought tolerant genotypes based on yield potential and loss in durum wheat
   > major cause of durum wheat yield losses in the Mediterranean and many other regions where the crop is not normally irrigated. Over three years (2010–13),
04953|Characteristics of agricultural droughts in CMIP6 historical simulations and future projections
   > 10 %. Our results show a significant difference between future scenarios regarding distribution shifts and spatial extent of extreme drought conditions in harvesting regions and
04954|Potential Distribution Shifts of Plant Species under Climate Change in Changbai Mountains, China
   > [no term] Shifts in alpine tundra plant species have important consequences for biodiversity and ecosystem services. However, recent research on upward species shifts have focused mainly on polar and high-latitude regions and
04955|A conditional generative model to disentangle morphological variation from batch effects in model organism imaging studies
   > in other clutches. Existing approaches such as conditional image classification models and domain adaptation approaches perform poorly on addressing these technical batch effects. Here, we
04956|Target Detection Method for Cotton Leaf Diseases and Pests Based on YOLOv11
   > efficient convolution (FMHEC) to achieve multi-scale feature extraction, and hypergraph-based cross-level and cross-location representation network (HyperC2Net) to achieve cross-level and cross-location feature fusion, and Shared Enhanced Convolution Head (SECH) to reduce parameter redundancy
04957|The role of wealth inequality in community management of a common-pool resources through voluntary sanctioning.
   > thermal regimes, may interact with climate change's impact on species distribution. This distribution shift may feedback, affecting hydropower operation costs through environmental compliance. We investigated … we projected an increase of species richness in the west and a decrease in the central and east of CONUS for fish, while projecting uniform
04958|Dry matter accumulation in different organs of the rice plant (Oryza sativa L.) and its relationship to grain filling in the dry season
   > [no abstract]
04959|Multivariate statistical evaluation of dissolved trace elements and a water quality assessment in the middle reaches of Huaihe River, Anhui, China.
   > [no abstract]
04960|Data-driven fault diagnosis in SOFC-based power plants under off-design operating conditions
   > if the supervised classifier is adapted to the new condition through the domain adaptation statistical technique. The present study shows that a probability of correct
04961|Field-Oriented Potato Disease Diagnosis: An Optimized EfficientNet-B0 Framework for Real-World Agricultural Deployment
   > global food security. While deep learning shows promise, most systems fail in real-world conditions due to laboratory-centric development. This study develops an optimized EfficientNet-B0 framework … in uncontrolled field environments the broadest coverage validated in real agricultural settings. Trained on 3,076 field images from Indonesian farms, our approach incorporates strategic data
04962|PolarMix: A General Data Augmentation Technique for LiDAR Point Clouds
   > plug-and-play for various 3D deep architectures and also performs well for unsupervised domain adaptation.
04963|Development of molecular markers in weedy rice chloroplast based on genomic database.
   > [no abstract]
04964|AI-driven protein engineering: A new paradigm for plant trait design.
   > sequence space and improves candidate prioritization. We also address current bottlenecks, including domain shift, reliability gaps in generative models, limited portability, the genotype-to-phenotype gap, and
04965|Pest detection in dynamic environments: an adaptive continual test-time domain adaptation strategy
   > which is often not the case in diverse real-world environments, leading to decreased accuracy. To solve the problem, we propose the CrossDomain-PestDetect (CDPD) method, which is based on the YOLOv9 model and incorporates a test-time adaptation (TTA) framework. CDPD includes Dynamic Data Augmentation (DynamicDA), a Dynamic Adaptive … exchanging information through feature fusion at the feature ext
04966|When Lie Groups Meet Hyperspectral Images: Equivariant Manifold Network for Few-Shot HSI Classification
   > in complex agricultural and urban hyperspectral scenes. This work validates the strong generalization and scalability of EMNet under pronounced distribution shift and extreme long-tail class imbalance, providing an effective solution for few-shot … OA from 85.89% to 93.77% under the 1% labeled-sample protocol, highlighting robust generalization for large-area mapping. Beyond point estimates, we re
04967|The iNaturalist Challenge 2017 Dataset
   > [no term] Existing image classification datasets used in computer vision tend to have an even number of images for each object category. In contrast, the natural world is heavily imbalanced, as some
04968|Leaf Volatiles and Relevant Gene Expression as the Specific Characteristics in Citrus depressa Accession Discrimination
   > of fresh leaves from seven C. depressa accessions which were collected from different locations in Taiwan were extracted by headspace solid-phase microextraction and analyzed by
04969|EmbryoTempoFormer: clip-based developmental tempo inference from zebrafish brightfield time-lapse microscopy
   > are quantified using embryo-bootstrap confidence intervals with embryos—rather than frames or clips—as independent units, avoiding pseudo-replication. Using temperature perturbation as a representative domain shift, we robustly quantify condition-induced changes in global developmental dynamics and show
04970|An Intelligent System for Coffee Grading and Disease Identification. (Un système intelligent pour le classement du café et l'identification des maladi
   > [no abstract]
04971|Genetic Analysis of Soybean Flower Size Phenotypes Based on Computer Vision and Genome-Wide Association Studies
   > [no term] The dimensions of organs such as flowers, leaves, and seeds are governed by processes of cellular proliferation and expansion. In soybeans, the dimensions of these organs exhibit a strong correlation
04972|TM ON AQUACULTURE : UNDERSTANDING THE LATENT INFORMATION USING R
   > [no abstract]
04973|Detection of Defect on Fruit using Computer Vision Technique
   > [no abstract]
04974|Clinical features of ProMisE groups identify different phenotypes of patients with endometrial cancer
   > [no term] The Proactive Molecular Risk Classifier for Endometrial Cancer (ProMisE) groups has identified four molecular prognostic groups of endometrial cancer (EC): POLE-mutated (POLE-mt), mismatch repair-deficient (MMR-d), p53-abnormal (p53-abn), p53-wild-type (p53-wt). These
04975|The Fruit Fly Auxodrome: a computer vision setup for longitudinal studies of Drosophila development
   > [no term] Abstract Studies in Drosophila have contributed a great deal to our understanding of developmental mechanisms. Indeed, familiar names of critical signaling components, such as Hedgehog and Notch, have their origins
04976|Cysmotif Searcher Pipeline for Antimicrobial Peptide Identification in Plant Transcriptomes
   > [no abstract]
04977|Benchmarking Hierarchical Task Sampling for Few-Shot Multi-Label Domain Adaptation
   > [no abstract]
04978|Cross-species predictive modeling reveals conserved drought responses between maize and sorghum
   > [no term] Drought tolerance is a highly complex trait controlled by numerous interconnected pathways with substantial variation within and across plant species. This complexity makes it difficult to distill individual genetic loci
04979|HADF: A Hybrid Adaptive Deep Framework for Robust and Mobile-Efficient Plant Disease Detection
   > agriculture and food security. Deep learning has advanced automated diagnosis, yet models trained on curated datasets often fail in real-world field conditions due to domain shifts from varying illumination, cluttered backgrounds, and sensor noise. To address these … through a cross-attention fusion module. The framework integrates Correlation Alignment (CORAL) for source–target domain adaptation 
04980|Prediction on Soybean Crop Yield Applying Machine Learning Regression
   > affecting parameters from the past thirty-eight years, which are gathered from 105 different locations.
04981|Molecular and Phylogenetic Analyses of Lumpy Skin Disease Virus (LSDV) Outbreak (2021/22) in Pakistan Indicate Involvement of a Clade 1.2 LSDV Strain
   > is characterized by the development of skin nodules, leading to severe illness, decreased milk production, and mortality, causing huge economic losses. This study aimed to
04982|Decoding Single-Cell Omics of Perturbation Responses Using DeSCOPE
   > fail to outperform simple baseline models, highlighting a critical bottleneck in their generalizability and robustness. Here, we present DeSCOPE, a lightweight conditional variational autoencoder framework … multi-modal landscapes. We systematically benchmarked DeSCOPE across diverse datasets under two challenging out-of-distribution settings: unseen genes and unseen cell types. DeSCOPE uniquely s
04983|Crop production estimation using deep learning technique
   > that local and regional scale parameters jointly improve the prediction capability for future years. Capability of the proposed model was validated with export–import data on
04984|CCUDA-SS: Cross-Crop Unsupervised Domain Adaptation for Semantic Segmentation
   > collecting pixel-level annotations at scale is costly, motivating the use of unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) to transfer knowledge from annotated (source) to unlabeled (target) datasets. … UDA methods, primarily designed for generic visual tasks, struggle with the unique domain shifts in agricultural imagery caused by variations in crop morphology, growth stage,
04985|Optimizing MobileNetV3 Using Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm for the Recognition of Bean Leaf Diseases
   > can accurately identify healthy or diseased bean leaves from images captured in real-world conditions. With having only 2.9M parameters, the best model achieved a high degree of accuracy at 98.44% on unseen data, outperforming the models proposed by other researchers on the same classification
04986|In-Season Mapping of Sugarcane Planting Based on Sentinel-2 Imagery
   > was confirmed to have superior transfer learning capability for sugarcane classification across different regions and periods compared to the Harmonic-OCSVM method.
04987|A labelled dataset of healthy and diseased common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) from Tanzania
   > Zenodo repository. By providing a large field-based image resource captured under variable real-world conditions, this dataset can support the development, training and evaluation of image-based
04988|Seedling length test in the evaluation of the physiological quality of Amburana cearensis (Allemão) A.C. Smith seeds
   > [no term] Vigor tests are used in the internal quality control by seed producing companies. Amongst the vigor tests, the test of length of seedlings has potential to give complementary informations to
04989|Smart Pest Detection in the Wild
   > of this study is to develop an intelligent system to detect pests in the wild. To this end, a dataset of images of whitefly-infested tomato
04990|Governing Glioblastoma: A novel therapy to restore motor control and mitigate glioblastoma proliferation
   > [no term] Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a form of brain cancer with one of the poorest prognoses, including a 95% mortality rate over five years. We explored how dietary supplements can lower
04991|Agri-R1: Agricultural Reasoning for Disease Diagnosis via Automated-Synthesis and Reinforcement Learning
   > diagnosis challenges VLMs, as conventional fine-tuning requires extensive labels, lacks interpretability, and generalizes poorly. While reasoning improves model robustness, existing methods rely on costly expert … recognition accuracy, +33.3\% in agricultural knowledge QA, and a +26.10-point improvement in cross-domain generalization over standard fine-tuning. These results suggest that automated 
04992|Evaluation of Different Few-Shot Learning Methods in the Plant Disease Classification Domain
   > classes of plant diseases. The dataset consisted of 4000 images collected in real-world conditions, making it ideal for testing these methods. The results highlight the
04993|Role of chemometric classification for future prediction: application on different geographical origins of Jordanian Guava
   > compounds have been detected and identified with variances from one region to another. Limonene, longifolene, β-copaene, and t-muurolo were found in high concentrations among the … Southern Shouneh regions. Finally, Northern Shouneh-2 guava samples showed different content than other regions due to the distinguished levels of t-muurolol. Guava classification based on
04994|Data-Driven Robot Perception in the Wild
   > environments, primarily outdoors and potentially near humans or other systems. The term in the wild refers exactly to the unconstrained nature of these environments, where the system can easily encounter something previously unseen and where the systemmight interact with unknowing humans. Some examples of environments … necessary to handle the types of tasks and situations that could occur in the 
04995|The Genomic Landscape of Wilms' Tumor 1 (WT1) Mutant Acute Myeloid Leukemia
   > Consultancy, Other: Research support, Speakers Bureau; Stemline: Consultancy, Speakers Bureau; Takeda: Other: Independent Advisory Committe (IRC); ASTEX: Other: Independent Advisory Committe (IRC); Abbvie: Other: Independent Advisory Committe (IRC); Novartis: Consultancy, Speakers Bureau; Jazz: Consultancy, Speakers Bureau. Nazha:MEI:
04996|Urban Change Detection Analysis during 1978–2017 at Kolkata, India, using Multi-temporal Satellite Data
   > [no abstract]
04997|A Novel Approach Spectral Anchor Consistency for Unsupervised Domain Adaptation
   > of models when faced with unlabeled data from a shifted distribution. Unsupervised Domain Adaptation (UDA) addresses this by transferring knowledge from a labeled source, but … findings validate SAC as a principled and efficient solution for achieving robust domain adaptation.
04998|A comparison of traditional and machine learning corn yield models using hyperspectral UAS and Landsat imagery
   > However, we suggest that model efficacy should be evaluated for use in other regions.
04999|Pest Detection on Leaf using Image Processing
   > [no term] A survey report showed that 70% Indian population depends on agriculture sector. Numerous heterogeneous diseases and various kind of pests affect the production of crops which leads to quality and
05000|Status Assessment of Agricultural Drainage Ditches
   > [no abstract]
05001|Generalizable Re-Identification from Videos with Cycle Association
   > —In this paper, we are interested in learning a generalizable person re-identiﬁcation (re-ID) representation from unlabeled videos. Compared with 1) the popular … test sets are typically under the same domain, and 2) the popular domain generalization (DG) re-ID setting where the training samples are labeled, our novel
05002|Influence of Prosopis cineraria based agroforestry system on soil attributes in rainfed arid western Rajasthan
   > [no term] The experiment was conducted at Agricultural Research Station (SKN Agriculture University) Fatehpur-Shekhawati, Sikar (Rajasthan) during 2016-2019 to find out the distribution pattern of soil pH, EC, OC and available nutrients
05003|FAM13A affects body fat distribution and adipocyte function
   > to their wild-type counterparts. Subcutaneous adipocytes in KO mice show a size distribution shift toward an increased number of smaller adipocytes, along with an improved
05004|Expression and occlusion invariant 3D face recognition based on region classifier
   > [no abstract]
05005|Annotated image dataset with different stages of European pear rust for UAV-based automated symptom detection in orchards
   > [no term] The evaluation of fruit genetic resources regarding a resistance to pathogens is an essential basis for subsequent selection in fruit breeding. Both genetic analysis and phenotyping of defined traits are
05006|Landsat study of deforestation in the Amazon region of Colombia: Departments of Caquetá and Putumayo
   > [no abstract]
05007|Characterizing the gene–environment interaction underlying natural morphological variation in Neurospora crassa conidiophores using high-throughput ph
   > [no term] Abstract Neurospora crassa propagates through dissemination of conidia, which develop through specialized structures called conidiophores. Recent work has identified striking variation in conidiophore morphology, using a wild population collection from
05008|High-content image informatics of the structural nuclear protein NuMA parses trajectories for stem/progenitor cell lineages and oncogenic transformati
   > poised to either adipogenic or osteogenic differentiation, and oligodendrocyte precursors isolated from different regions of the brain and destined to distinct astrocyte subtypes. Nuclear descriptors
05009|Distribution Shifts of Rhodiola kirilowii on the Tibetan Plateau under Anthropogenic and Future Climate Drivers
   > [no term] The sustainable development of Tibetan Plateau plant resources is threatened by global climate change. Rhodiola species, valuable in traditional Tibetan medicine, thrive in harsh high-altitude environments but face overharvesting pressure.
05010|Generating Masked Facial Datasets Using Dlib-Machine Learning Library
   > masks, to prevent the spread of the disease. Wearing a mask significantly decreases distinguishing ability due to its concealment of the main facial features. After … Promising results were obtained when they were evaluated using the Labeled Faces in the Wild (LFW) dataset, and two of the state-of-the-art facial recognition systems
05011|Farm Eye Raspberry PI and YOLO Based Animal Detector
   > [no abstract]
05012|Defect Detection of Photovoltaic Panel Electroluminescence Image Based on YOLOv7-SE-DS-NWD Algorithm
   > the convolution module in the detection head of YOLOv7 is replaced with Distribution Shifting Convolution (DSConv). In the detection head, the regression loss function replaces
05013|Integrated Innovative Biotechnology for Optimization of Environmental Bioprocesses and a Green Economy
   > [no abstract]
05014|The Agronomic Traits, Alkaloids Analysis, FT-IR and 2DCOS-IR Spectroscopy Identification of the Low-Nicotine-Content Nontransgenic Tobacco Edited by C
   > [no term] In this study, the agricultural traits, alkaloids content and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FT-IR) and two-dimensional correlation infrared spectroscopy (2DCOS-IR) analysis of the tobacco after Berberine Bridge Enzyme-Like Proteins (BBLs)
05015|Abstract 1250: Genetically-defined organoid models reveal early mechanisms of squamous neoplastic progression and therapeutic vulnerabilities in squam
   > tumors, and ii) rigorously model genotype-phenotype relationships. Here, we developed two complementary, cross-species, genetically-defined organoid systems: (1) a genome-sequenced, patient-derived organoid platform comprising 46 models … sensitivity to mitomycin C and onalespib. These findings were further validated using independent patient-derived HNSCC organoids harboring PIK3CA mutations. In 
05016|Shifts in plant distributions in response to climate warming in a biodiversity hotspot, the Hengduan Mountains
   > [no abstract]
05017|201. PREDICTION OF LYMPH NODE METASTASIS IN PATIENTS WITH ESOPHAGEAL SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA USING GENETIC SIGNATURES FROM LARGE-SCALE GENOMIC REPERTO
   > incorporated into the current staging modalities to help inform treatment decisions, and external validation is warranted in different populations.
05018|Self-Supervised Multi-Scale Cropping and Simple Masked Attentive Predicting for Lung CT-Scan Anomaly Detection
   > Anomaly detection has been widely explored by training an out-of-distribution detector with only normal data for medical images. However, detecting local and … and simple masked attentive predicting, which is capable of constructing a powerful out-of-distribution detector. Firstly, we propose CropMixPaste, a self-supervised augmentation task for generating density
05019|Multi-Label Plant Species Prediction with Metadata-Enhanced Multi-Head Vision Transformers
   > single-species plant images while testing on multi-species quadrat images, creating a drastic domain shift. Our methodology leverages a pre-trained DINOv2 Vision Transformer Base (ViT-B/14) backbone
05020|Domain Adaptation of Named Entity Recognition for Plant Health Monitoring. (Adaptation de la reconnaissance d'entités nommées au domaine de la santé d
   > [no term]  La complexité croissante des écosystèmes agricoles et le La complexité croissante des écosystèmes agricoles et le besoin urgent de surveillance efficace de la santé des plantes rendent nécessaires des
05021|Application of Deep Learning for Fig Fruit Detection in The Wild
   > effective detection and localization of fig fruits in complicated environmental pictures, e.g., in the wild. A dataset is manually created by first taking pictures of
05022|Transductive Transfer-Learning for Land Use Land Cover Classification Using Geospatial Foundation Models
   > US), and usually vary a lot in spatial resolution. To improve the generalizability and accuracy, there is a need for LULC models that better capture … across different geographical areas. Here, we introduce an approach leveraging techniques from domain adaptation to integrate information of an existing LULC application into a new
05023|Exploring Feature Selection and Cross-Validation for Improved Crop Yield Prediction
   > due to spatial autocorrelation. This research evaluates the effectiveness of random and spatial cross-validation (CV) techniques for crop yield prediction using machine learning models. The
05024|Eco-Anthropological factors predicting forest patch use by 3 species of wild Atelid monkeys co-existing with a small-scale farming community in Northe
   > best. In contrast, behavioral patterns were more unpredictable, with the the algorithms tested only reaching between 43-51% accuracy, the AdaBoost Classifier being the best. Our
05025|A Cross-Domain Coupling Network for Semantic Segmentation of Remote Sensing Images
   > suboptimal results in complex terrains. To address these challenges, we propose a cross-domain coupling network (CDCNet) that leverages both domain-specific extraction and cross-domain coupling (CDC) to enrich contextual cues for semantic inference. Our CDCNet integrates
05026|Integrated hydrological modelling for sustainable water allocation planning : Mkomazi Basin, South Africa case study
   > the current water – stressed challenges in South Africa as well as other regions of the globe. Considering the extent of the drought and the
05027|Multiyear Land use Classification with Sentinel-2 Time Series and Convolutional Neural Networks
   > It reaches a 76%-80% accuracy in classifying pixels among 11 classes across different years being trained only using one year. The main interest is focused on identifying irrigated
05028|DSCSkipNet: An Accuracy-Complexity Trade-off for Effective Potato Disease Identification in Uncontrolled Environments
   > focuses on developing an effective method to identify potato leaf diseases under real-world conditions. The proposed approach employs a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) architecture with
05029|An Efficient Neural Network Design Incorporating Autoencoders for the Classification of Bat Echolocation Sounds
   > bat echolocation pulse detection with subsequent genus classification and species classification under real-world conditions, including various types of noise. Our supervised model is supported by
05030|Effects of Environment Change Scenarios on the Potential Geographical Distribution of Cunninghamia lanceolata (Lamb.) Hook. in China
   > habitats under other scenarios will be characterized by an increasing and then decreasing trend by the 2050s and 2070s, except for the RCP2.6 scenario, under
05031|Financial trading decision model based on deep reinforcement learning for smart agricultural management
   > judgment to data-driven approaches. Through three key innovations—data denoising, time-series modeling, and domain adaptation—it provides a vital decision-support tool for advancing smart agriculture.
05032|Unsupervised Domain Adaptation For Plant Organ Counting
   > plant images is further challenged by having plant image datasets with significant domain shift due to different experimental conditions, e.g. applying an annotated dataset of … plant species. In this paper, we propose a domain-adversarial learning approach for domain adaptation of density map estimation for the purposes of object counting. The
05033|Reducing Semantic Ambiguity In Domain Adaptive Semantic Segmentation Via Probabilistic Prototypical Pixel Contrast
   > Domain adaptation aims to reduce the model degradation on the target domain caused by the domain shift between the source and target domains. Although encouraging performance has been achieved by combining contrastive learning with … by +5.2% mIoU in the most challenging daytime-to-nighttime adaptation scenario, exhibiting stronger generalization on other unseen datasets. The code and models are a
05034|DeepSpecN: A new hybrid method combining PROSPECT-PRO and Conv-Transformer to estimate leaf nitrogen content from leaf reflectance
   > physically-based methods are limited by ill-posed inversion, and hybrid methods suffer from domain shift between in-situ and simulated data. To overcome these limitations, this study … bidirectional reflectance data from 1724 maize leaves. The results showed that, when trained on representative samples, DeepSpecN achieved the highest estimation accuracy among all the
05035|FailBench: How Reliable are VLMs at Judging Robot Task Success?
   > to evaluate robot manipulation outcomes, but existing benchmarks offer limited evidence of cross-domain generalization. We introduce FailBench, a benchmark for robot failure detection comprising 2,197 manipulation … evidence: models approach saturation when outcomes depend on observable object motion, but degrade to near-chance (<0.60 balanced accuracy) on contact-intensive assembly tasks. Error a
05036|Distribution of active ingredients and quality control of Forsythia suspensa with AP-MALDI mass spectrometry imaging.
   > [no term] The fruits of Forsythia suspensa (F. suspensa) have been used as a traditional Chinese medicine for 2000 years. Currently, the quality control of F. suspensa strictly follows the instructions of
05037|Quantification of Bacteria Residing in Caenorhabditis elegans Intestine.
   > [no term] Quantification of intestinal colonization by pathogenic or commensal bacteria constitute a critical part of the analysis to understand host-microbe interactions during different time points of their interplay. Here we detail
05038|PatchTST-DME: Frequency-Aware Transformer for Potato Price Forecasting in Agricultural Management
   > [no abstract]
05039|Implications of climate change to the design of protected areas: The case study of small islands (Azores)
   > where the current protected areas are insufficient and inadequate to tackle species distribution shifts. There will be the need for a revision of the current
05040|A systematic literature review on the integration of artificial intelligence in digital twins for robotic fault diagnosis
   > [no abstract]
05041|An Empirical Study on the Impact of Preprocessing Methods on Single-Source Domain Generalization in Diabetic Retinopathy Grading
   > paper presents an empirical study on the impact of preprocessing methods on single-source domain generalization in response to the issue of insufficient cross-dataset generalization capability in automatic diabetic retinopathy (DR) diagnosis. Using EfficientNet as the unified backbone network, models were trained on the APTOS dataset and subjected to zero-shot generalization testing on three indep
05042|Enhancing Precision Agriculture Through PSO-Enabled Drones: Targeted Pest Control in Indonesian Rice Cultivation
   > such as identifying one area and encountering challenges when translating paths into real-world conditions. Moving forward, researchers can direct their efforts toward addressing these obstacles
05043|EarVN1.0: A new large-scale ear images dataset in the wild
   > [no term] Ear recognition is starting to grow as an alternative to other biometric recognition types in recent years. The EarVN1.0 dataset is constructed by collecting ear images of 164 Asian peoples
05044|PENGARUH PELATIHAN METODE RICE TERHADAP TINGKAT PENGETAHUAN DAN KETERAMPILAN PENANGANAN DISLOKASI PADA PEMAIN BULUTANGKIS DESA DELANGGU
   > level of knowledge. Following the administration of the RICE method training, the distribution shifted, with the highest number of respondents, 20 individuals (66.7%), attaining sufficient
05045|Crop Sentry: AI-Enhanced Protection for Agriculture Field
   > [no term] Across the nation, there is a wide range of conflicts between people and animals, such as the threat posed by monkeys in urban areas, wild pigs stealing crops, birds, and
05046|Enhancing Tomato Cultivation for Quality Yield and Demand Fulfillment
   > [no term] Tomato farming is critical to meeting the growing demand for high-quality tomato products. With a growing population and shifting dietary tastes, there is an increased demand for sustainable and efficient
05047|MSCDDF: Multi-Stage Caption-Driven Diffusion Framework for Remote Sensing Image Semantic Segmentation
   > has optimized a low-dimensional latent space to balance efficiency and quality, inspiring cross-domain applications in semantic segmentation. However, when directly applied to remote sensing (RS)
05048|Distinguishing the pros and cons of metabolic reprogramming in oncolytic virus immunotherapy Improving identification of symptomatic cancer at primary
   > [no abstract]
05049|Origin and Potential Expansion of the Invasive Longan Lanternfly, Pyrops candelaria (Hemiptera: Fulgoridae) in Taiwan
   > cultivation areas. We reconstructed the longan lanternfly phylogeny to compare haplotypes among different regions. In addition, we predicted the habitat suitability for the species based
05050|Male with an apparently normal phenotype carrying a BRCA1 exon 20 duplication in trans to a BRCA1 frameshift variant
   > [no term] Reports of dual carriers of pathogenic BRCA1 variants in trans are extremely rare, and so far, most individuals have been associated with a Fanconi Anemia-like phenotype. We identified two families
05051|Resistance of winter soft wheat varieties to low negative temperatures
   > [no term] The problem of resistance of winter wheat to low negative temperatures is one of the most important in the agriculture economy, the solution of which will contribute to the increase
05052|Corrosion Control by Deposition off CaCO3 Films: Part 3, A Practical Approach for Plant Operators
   > [no abstract]
05053|ОПУШЕНИЕ ЛИСТА У КАРТОФЕЛЯ Solanum tuberosum: МОРФОЛОГИЯ, ФУНКЦИОНАЛЬНАЯ РОЛЬ И МЕТОДЫ ИССЛЕДОВАНИЯ
   > [no term] Pubescence is one of the important biotic factors in plants related to protection from stressful environmental factors. In potato, the interest in the study of pubescence is associated primarily with
05054|Fine Scale Genomic Signals of Admixture and Alien Introgression among Asian Rice Landraces
   > [no term] Abstract Modern rice cultivars are adapted to a range of environmental conditions and human preferences. At the root of this diversity is a marked genetic structure, owing to multiple foundation
05055|Towards Explainable AI4EO: An Explainable Deep Learning Approach for Crop Type Mapping using Satellite Images Time Series
   > Deep Learning (DL) models are extremely effective for crop-type mapping. However, they generalize poorly when there is a temporal shift between the Satellite Image Time Series (SITS) acquired in the source domain (where the model is trained) and the target domain (never seen by the network). To address this challenge, this paper … to automatically capture and mitigate the temporal shift between SI
05056|Hynobius amjiensis automatic recognition based on deep learning
   > precision, reduces the false detection rate, and increases the model's robustness and generalization capability. The optimal model, YOLOv8x-ABCD, demonstrated superior performance across all evaluation metrics … such misdetections, lowers the model’s error rate, and enhances detection accuracy and generalization.
05057|Real-time Detection of Birds for Farm Surveillance Using YOLOv7 and SAHI
   > [no term] There are various causes of crop damage, and a flock of birds serves a major proportion of it. The conventional manual scaring techniques have proven to be inefficient. But the
05058|A field boundary dataset for the canadian prairies derived from sentinel-2 imagery using the segment anything model
   > code and processing scripts are provided to support reproducibility and adaptation to other regions. This dataset provides a consistent field-scale boundary reference layer for agricultural
05059|Enhancing Green Fraction Estimation in Rice and Wheat Crops: A Self-Supervised Deep Learning Semantic Segmentation Approach
   > a wide range of environmental conditions (sim dataset). We then used the domain adaptation model cycle-consistent generative adversarial network (CycleGAN) to bridge the reality gap
05060|Novel nectar robbing negatively affects reproduction in Digitalis purpurea
   > [no term] Abstract With many plant–pollinator interactions undergoing change as species’ distributions shift, we require a better understanding of how the addition of new interacting partners can affect plant reproduction. One such
05061|THOR: Thermal-Guided Hand-Object Reasoning via Adaptive Vision Sampling
   > to identify moments when a person switches from one hand-related activity to another and adjust the RGB frame sampling rate by increasing it during activity
05062|Reinforcement Learning Based on Tree Model Environment in Automatic Regulation of Water Treatment Dosing
   > by proposing the utilization of a Gradient Boosting Decision Tree (GBDT) model trained on real plant data as the simulation environment for agent interaction. Two … maintaining equivalent effluent quality standards. These findings indicate that employing tree-based models trained on actual plant data as training environments could accelerate agent learning while providing a superior representation
05063|A Comparative Study of Unsupervised Winter/Summer Crop Classification Methods for FPAR Image Time Series
   > Recurrent Neural Network) are included. The experimental validation is conducted in three different years over the Italian territory and in comparison to publicly available benchmark
05064|Hydrogeochemical evaluation of groundwater in Deccan Volcanic Province, Maharashtra, India through GIS and statistical techniques
   > groundwater pollution and observed that south-westerly part having more groundwater pollution than other regions. Statistical techniques like Correlation Matrix (CM), Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and
05065|Cross-Domain Transfer Method for 3D Scenes Based on Neural Radiance Field Representation
   > Cross-domain transfer tasks are an important research direction in the fields of computer graphics and computer vision, aiming to transfer visual content from a source domain to a target domain. The goal is to alter the appearance while preserving the underlying … follow one of two strategies. The first transfers real images to the target domain using two-dimensional (2D) translation methods, and 
05066|CNN-based Leaf Image Classification for Bangladeshi Medicinal Plant Recognition
   > new dataset of 10 medicinal plants of Bangladesh is introduced, collected from different regions across the country, and some state-of-the images collected from different sources. … training process was done on 34123 images, and the experimental result on another 3570 images proved that this method is quite feasible and effective, which
05067|Ethnobotany, botany, and archaeology
   > [no term] Abstract This chapter has provided some information on where and when cannabis evolved, archaeological hints as to when it began to be used for intoxicating purposes, and ideas on how
05068|EarthNet2021: Self-supervised impact predictions of extreme weather.
   > Climate changes globally, yet its impacts strongly vary between different locations in the same region. Today, numerical weather models are able to
05069|Gut microbial metabolite p-Cresol promotes autistic-like behaviors in mice through remodeling of the gut microbiota Microbial p-Cresol causes autistic
   > [no abstract]
05070|Distribution and transformations of zinc in some soils of the terai situation of West Bengal and reflection on boro rice under different methods of cu
   > [no abstract]
05071|Long-Term IEEE 802.15.4 Propagation Modeling in Millet Fields Using Machine Learning
   > Fresnel-zone obstruction, as well as geometric, temporal, and environmental features. Using link-level spatial cross-validation across 101 previously unseen links, gradient boosting regression obtains R2 = 0.919 with RMSE = 4.25
05072|Precision aquaculture: a short review on engineering innovations
   > [no abstract]
05073|High-Reliability Wireless Communications for Virtual Power Plant with Efficient Network Redundancy
   > extreme events is critical for making energy-efficient redundant transmission decisions. However, performance degradation in prediction algorithms can occur due to the distribution shift between training and testing data. To address this, we propose an Adaptive Decomposition-Enhanced TimesNet (AD-TimesNet) that improves the prediction performance under such distribution shifts. The DER user equipm
05074|Gene expression analysis and transcriptome evolution in apomicts: a case study in Boechera and Ranunculus
   > [no abstract]
05075|To the methodology for the study of intraspecific variability and selection of wild forms of Viburnum opulus L.
   > [no term] The methodological recommendation for the study of intraspecific variability and the selection of wildgrowing promising for breeding forms of common Viburnumis written on the basis of a large amount of
05076|The Optimal Supply of Crop Pollination and Honey From Wild and Managed Bees: An Analytical Framework for Diverse Socio-Economic and Ecological Setting
   > Based on a thorough literature review and on our own research, we generalize the basic model by Rucker et al. (2012) to describe farmer-beekeeper interactions as determined by diverse agro-ecological, institutional and socioeconomic conditions. The generalized model serves as an analytical framework to classify real world farmer-ecosystem-beekeeper interactions,
05077|Are all the flowers the same? A Citizen Science mobile app for increasing awareness about insect pollinators
   > [no term] Climate change is one of the most significant challenges of our time. Biodiversity makes an essential contribution to both climate-change mitigation and adaptation. To this end, it is essential to
05078|Drinking water resources suitability assessment in Brahmani river Odisha based on pollution index of surface water utilizing advanced water quality me
   > [no term] The prediction and management of water quality are critical to ensure Sustainable water resources, particularly in regions like Odisha, where rivers face increasing pollution from industrialization, agriculture, and urban expansion.
05079|Applying biogeochemistry to identify the geographic origins of insects - a model using Prostephanus truncatus
   > We explored multi-elemental profiles of an insect pest and its food from different locations in order to identify intrinsic markers of geographic origin. ICP-AES screening
05080|Assessment of Coastal Aquaculture for India from Sentinel-1 SAR Time Series
   > sampling method. The study demonstrates, with an overall accuracy of 0.89, the spatio-temporal transferability of the methodological framework and the high potential for a global-scale
05081|Time course sensor‐based phenotyping can predict Ascochyta blight disease severity in  Cicer  species
   > RGB images, and vegetation indices were extracted from multispectral images. A model trained on growth rates of fractional green canopy cover normalized to control genotypes … severity classes with an accuracy of 65% –81 % ( 0.43–0.59) on unseen data from three different seasons. The developed methods provide a pathway to
05082|Distribusi Beras Murah Untuk Masyarakat Oleh PT. Jatim Grha Utama Dalam Gelaran Operasi Pasar Lumbung Pangan
   > [no term] This study examines the implementation of cheap rice distribution by PT. Jatim Grha Utama through the Food Barn Market Operation and its impact on people's food accessibility. Qualitative research methods
05083|Deep learning method for agriculture monitoring under adaptive environment using UAV-based aerial images
   > (source region) and testing (target region) data. To resolve this, a heterogeneous domain adaptation-based classification strategy has been investigated by considering the two different types of aerial image datasets collected over two different regions. Here, initially, a deep convolution neural network under multi-filter and multi-scale framework (MFMS-DCNN) was trained on the source-region data
05084|Optimized CNN and Transformer Models for Accurate Detection of Ayurvedic Herbs in Real-World Environments
   > mechanisms along with spatial feature extractors. Domain-shifts validation sets also show better generalization in field settings through comparative analysis. The paper also talks about the
05085|Spatially Consistent Representation Learning
   > used in existing contrastive methods can minimize representation distances between the semantically different regions of a single image.In this paper, we propose a spatially consistent
05086|Privacy Blur: Quantifying Privacy and Utility for Image Data Release
   > Image data collected in the wild often contains private information such as faces and license plates, … utility by the quality of the learnt representations when the model is trained on data with obfuscated faces. We show that the most popular industry-standard
05087|Image Detection System for Elephant Directions along with the Forest Border Areas
   > [no abstract]
05088|Climate Based Factor Analysis and Epidemiology Prediction for Potato Late Blight Using Machine Learning Approaches
   > [no term] Potato is one of the largest food crop and an integral part of world’s food supply. Late Bligh in Potato is community disease and has capability to devastate the entire
05089|Tree-based explainable clustering for drought severity predictions in United States
   > different ways. Significant crop damages and losses are emerging and spreading throughout different regions, accompanied by water scarcity and imposed restrictions on farmers' water usage.
05090|A fuzzy-based index to identify suitable areas for host-parasitoid interactions: Case study of the Asian citrus psyllid Diaphorina citri and its natur
   > parasitoid is September to March. The index can be easily used for different locations and species and has the potential to support biological control programs,
05091|Valuing varietal diversity: indigenous Canela horticulture in northeast Brazil
   > [no abstract]
05092|WARP-Net: a weighted attention residual prediction network for herbicide resistance modeling in weeds via multispectral imaging
   > spectral, genomic, and environmental signals, and a residual calibration module that improves generalization via domain adaptation. Experiments on a curated dataset of 15 weed species captured under
05093|Uranium and radium accumulation by wild plants and their phytoremediation potential
   > [no term] The paper presents the results of studying the accumulation of uranium and radium-226 in ca¬nary grass (Phalaris arun-dinacea L.) and sedge (Carex acuta L.) in order to identify their role
05094|Dynamic Sampling Versions of Popular SPC Charts for Big Data Analysis
   > [no term] The statistical process control (SPC) chart is an effective tool for the analysis, interpretation, and visualization of data from sequential processes. Commonly used SPC charts such as the Shewhart, CUSUM
05095|Time Series Mixup for Crop Segmentation in Domain Adaptation
   > Scalable crop monitoring from satellite time series requires models that generalize across regions and seasons with limited labeled data. We propose a domain adaptation framework using pixel-set encoders and temporal self-attention to reduce reliance on
05096|Counting Sea Lions from Aerial Photography using Deep Learning with Density Maps
   > [no abstract]
05097|DLP14k: A Benchmark Dataset for Green Fruit Detection in Natural Camouflaging Environments
   > a novel dataset of 14k high-resolution images capturing lime fruits under diverse real-world conditions, including varying lighting, occlusions, and negative samples (e.g., foliage-only images). Unlike
05098|Dynamic maps of plastic-mulched farmlands in Northeast China from 1985 to 2025
   > development in Northeast China black soil region, and can support applications in other regions with similar agricultural practices.
05099|Leaf disease detection using deep Convolutional Neural Networks
   > to be a critical concern. Recent research into overcoming this challenge includes domain adaptation (DA) algorithms like classic Domain-Adversarial Neural Network (DANN) or the innovative Multi-Representation Subdomain Adaptation Network with Uncertainty Regularization for Cross-Species Plant Disease Classification (MSUN). However, the topic remains under-explored as the newly developed methods we
05100|A standardized protocol for assessing the performance of automatic detection systems used in onshore wind power plants to reduce avian mortality.
   > [no term] While wind power plants are an important contribution to the production of renewable energy to limit climate change, collision mortality from turbines is a danger for birds, including many protected
05101|Arboreal camera trapping: a reliable tool to monitor plant‐frugivore interactions in the trees on large scales
   > several mammals with foraging behaviors in the trees. We also recorded 4399 independent interaction events, including 275 unique plant‐bird interactions. We proposed a framework to … largely unbiased sampling method, the field application of arboreal camera trapping in different regions can advance the technology of biodiversity monitoring and lead to more
05102|Using Oblique Imagery to Identify Invasive Plant Species in Onondaga County, NY : a Feasibility Study
   > [no abstract]
05103|Jukuri, open repository of the Natural Resources Institute Finland (Luke)
   > [no abstract]
05104|Using Remote Sensing and GIS Techniques to Evaluate the Sand Reservation Project in Al Ahsa Oasis
   > all phases of the study to calibrate and classify Landsat images of different years (1979, 1987, 2000 and 2017, respectively). It has also been used
05105|Characterization of the bZIP Transcription Factor Family in Pepper (Capsicum annuum L.): CabZIP25 Positively Modulates the Salt Tolerance
   > [no term] The basic leucine zipper (bZIP) proteins compose a family of transcription factors (TFs), which play a crucial role in plant growth, development, and abiotic and biotic stress responses. However, no
05106|PD-L1 EXPRESSION AND COMBINED PATTERN OF PD-L1/PD-1+TIMC DENSITY PREDICT PROGNOSIS IN GLIOBLASTOMA PATIENTS
   > [no abstract]
05107|توسعه مدل ریاضی الگوریتم یادگیری تقویتی برای خودکارسازی آببندهای کشویی در کانالها
   > [no abstract]
05108|Virtual Fencing using Yolo Framework in Agriculture Field
   > [no term] Internet of Things (IoT) is an ecologically associated with physical object that is accessible through the internet. IoT has an assortment of utilizations to be specific in smart agriculture, smart
05109|Domain-Invariant Feature Learning for General Face Forgery Detection
   > intra-dataset scenario, few of them gain satisfying results in the case of cross-dataset testing with more practical value. To tackle this issue, in this paper, … framework - DIFL for face forgery detection. In the framework, an adversarial domain generalization is introduced to learn the domain-invariant features from the forged samples
05110|Predicting potential distribution shifts due to climate change and assessing contemporary land cover changes for two endemic bird species of the Mexic
   > [no abstract]
05111|Mapping nectar-rich pollinator floral resources using airborne multispectral imagery.
   > of similar colours in the visible range can be distinguished from one another within classifications and quantifying floral unit density from classifications so that the
05112|Change Detection Analysis of Land Cover Features using Support Vector Machine Classifier
   > of the study area. SVM classifier accurately classifies the imagery of the different years 2017, 2010, 2003, and 1996 with 90.00%, 82.75%, 86.37%, and 83.38% … land cover features. From 1996 to 2017, orchards and vegetation are rapidly decreased by 13,698.36 ha and 1,638.81 ha due to unplanned development in urban
05113|Computer Vision Techniques for Automated Detection of Wildflower Growth Stages
   > [no term] This paper presents a new methodology that utilizes computer vision techniques for the automatic detection and classification of stages in wildflower growth. Wild plant development monitoring is essential for ecological
05114|STRLite: Lightweight Masked Autoencoders for Adaptable Scene Text Recognition
   > a shared tiny Vision Transformer encoder. The 6M parameters design enables low-cost domain adaptation, allowing practitioners to specialize the model to new scripts or environments
05115|Forecasting Photovoltaic Power Generation Using Neural Network Modeling Towards Energy Efficiency
   > focuses on predicting the energy output of several PV plants located in different regions, employing Prophet and NeuralProphet models, including configurations with autoregressive components. Historical
05116|An Interactive Computer Vision System for Tree Ring Analysis
   > [no abstract]
05117|Revision of the systematics of the genus Calliptamus Serville 1831, (Orthoptera: Acrididae: Calliptaminae) in Algeria using morphological, chemical, a
   > [no abstract]
05118|Long-Horizon System Identification of Industrial Manipulators: a Comparative Study Using Measured-Input Rollouts
   > a history-linear ARX model, and compact NARX-MLP and NARX-LSTM models under trajectory-level in-/out-of-distribution splits with multi-seed confidence intervals. While ARX achieves the lowest one-step RMSE,
05119|Robustness of near infrared spectroscopy based spectral features for non-destructive bitter pit detection in honeycrisp apples
   > [no abstract]
05120|SCA-YOLOv11: An Enhanced YOLOv11-Based Approach for Small Wild Bird Target Detection
   > In the wild, birds are often far away from the observation equipment, presenting
05121|Novel objects alter immediate early gene expression globally for ZENK and regionally for c-Fos in neophobic and non-neophobic house sparrows.
   > foods, or explore unfamiliar environments - affects whether animals can adapt to new environments and exploit novel resources. However, despite its importance, the neurobiological mechanisms … any of the 6 brain regions examined, there was a significant global decrease in ZENK expression and a significant increase in c-Fos expression in the
05122|Analyze QRF model for soil organic carbon map building with digital soil mapping (case study: Sumatra island and Java island)
   > [no term] In the current era of global warming, soil organic content is one of the most important soil properties. The goal of the entire globe is for carbon neutrality to be
05123|Honey activity on the proliferation and migration of oral squamous cell carcinoma: In vitro and bioinformatic analysis
   > [no term] This study aimed to investigate, in oral squamous carcinoma cells (OSCC), the antineoplastic effect of Apis mellifera honey produced from Aroeira and wildflower, in the region of Jequitinhonha River Valley,
05124|Quality assessment of licorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra L.) from different sources by multiple fingerprint profiles combined with quantitative analysis, an
   > [no term] Licorice, as a nutritional plant extensively used in food fields, grows in various origins of the world as wild and cultivated types. But existing methods were not adequate for quality
05125|Mushroom Recognition and Classification Based on Convolutional Neural Network
   > [no term] Mushroom as a common plant, its high nutritional value, but pick wild mushrooms up the mountain, identify the variety of mushrooms is a problem, every year due to accidental eating
05126|Classifying New Hybrid Cooperation Models for Short Food-Supply Chains—Providing a Concept for Assessing Sustainability Transformation in the Urban-Ru
   > of such cooperation models and their potential to serve as blueprints for other regions. In this conceptual paper, a classification approach derived from social enterprise
05127|Self-Rule to Adapt: Learning Generalized Features from Sparsely-Labeled Data Using Unsupervised Domain Adaptation for Colorectal Cancer Tissue Phenoty
   > [no abstract]
05128|PlantDeBERTa: An Open Source Language Model for Plant Science
   > molecular, physiological, biochemical, and agronomic dimensions of plant adaptation. PlantDeBERTa exhibits strong generalization capabilities across entity types and demonstrates the feasibility of robust domain adaptation in low-resource scientific fields.By providing a scalable and reproducible framework for
05129|DeepCotton Mapper: An Online Cotton Mapping Framework on Google Earth Engine Using Multi-Index Pseudo-Labels and Lightweight Deep Learning
   > of 0.8425, comparable to U-Net while being more suitable for GEE deployment. Transferability assessment using XJ_COTTON_10 further demonstrated strong spatial and temporal generalization, with OA/F1-scores of 0.94/0.94 in 2020 and 0.90/0.89 in 2021. By combining
05130|Land Cover Mapping in the Amhara Region of Northwest Ethiopia Using Convolutional Neural Networks and Domain Adaptation Techniques
   > cover classes across the entire Amhara region. This paper presents results from domain adaptation experiments using training data from Senegal to accurately map land cover … CNNs provided promising results for predicting land cover in Ethiopia imagery using domain adaptation techniques and without the addition of local training labels, with an
05131|A multi-context feature learning approach to identify disease-specific gene neighborhoods
   > [no term] Analyzing gene networks in a specific phenotype state can provide important insights into pathways and biological processes underlying the onset and progression of the disease. Specifically, analyzing gene neighborhoods around
05132|Cloud computing for big data analytics in the Process Control Industry
   > [no abstract]
05133|High-Resolution Chest X-Ray Bone Suppression Using Unpaired CT Structural Priors
   > by leveraging the DRR bone decomposition model learned from unpaired CTs and domain adaptation between CXR and DRR. To further mitigate the domain differences between
05134|Aortic flow patterns and wall shear stress maps by 4D-flow cardiovascular magnetic resonance in the assessment of aortic dilatation in bicuspid aortic
   > estimated. Unadjusted and multivariable adjusted linear regression analyses were used to identify independent correlates of aortic root or ascending dilatation. Age, sex, valve morphotype, body … distributed right-anteriorly, however, RN-BAV showed higher variable profiles with a main proximal-posterior distribution shifting anteriorly at mid-distal AAo. Compared to controls, BAV patients presente
05135|Generalizable Person Search on Open-world User-Generated Video Content
   > domain difference to surveillance scenes. In this work, we explore enhancing the out-of-domain generalization capabilities of person search models, and propose a generalizable framework on both feature-level and data-level generalization to facilitate downstream tasks in arbitrary scenarios. Specifically, we focus on learning … person search benchmarks without using any human annotation or samples
05136|Semantic Style Transfer for Enhancing Animal Facial Landmark Detection
   > is a technique for applying the visual characteristics of one image onto another while preserving structural content. Traditionally used for artistic transformations, NST has recently been adapted, e.g., for domain adaptation and data augmentation. This study investigates the use of this technique … for 48 anatomical cat facial landmarks and the CatFLW dataset it was trained on, making three main 
05137|GG-YOLO: A Lightweight Dual-Path Attention Detector with Dynamic Sampling for Dense Wheat Spike Detection
   > and yield estimation, but real-world field conditions—such as dense spike overlap, environmental domain shifts, and degradation-induced failures like motion blur—pose significant challenges. Achieving robust perception under these circumstances … mechanism, robustly recovers fine-grained spatial details during multi-scale feature pyramid fusion. Extensive cross-dataset experiments on the GlobalWhe
05138|European Botanic Gardens in a Changing World: Insights into EUROGARD VI
   > [no abstract]
05139|SmileNet: Registration-Free Smiling Face Detection In The Wild
   > smiling face detection framework called SmileNet for detecting faces and recognising smiles in the wild. SmileNet uses a Fully Convolutional Neural Network (FCNN) to detect
05140|Unleashing Foundation Vision Models: Adaptive Transfer for Diverse Data-Limited Scientific Domains
   > such as generic, multimedia, biological, medical, industrial, agricultural, environmental, geographical, materials science, out-of-distribution (OOD), and 3D analysis, CLAdapter achieves state-of-the-art performance across diverse data-limited scientific
05141|Classification of Waxy Maize Kernels Using Single Kernel Near-Infrared Reflectance Spectroscopy
   > [no term] The waxy gene of maize is a high value breeding target, but it is time consuming to separate waxy and wild-type kernels. A common method involves staining the endosperm with
05142|Untargeted metabolomic profiling in children identifies novel pathways in asthma and atopy.
   > large multisite pediatric population of 470 children aged <13 years from 3 different sites in the United States and France. Atopy positivity (At+) was defined … profiles were generated through ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectroscopy. We applied 2 independent machine learning classifiers and short-listed 362 metabolites as discriminant features. Our analysis
05143|The impact of fine-tuning paradigms on unknown plant diseases recognition
   > in the training dataset, rendering them ineffective against new disease types. Although out-of-distribution (OOD) detection methods have been proposed to address this issue, the impact … that visual prompt tuning outperforms fully fine-tuning and linear probe tuning in out-of-distribution detection performance, especially in the few-shot scenarios. Notably, the max-logit-based on visual
05144|Análise da variabilidade espectro-temporal intraespecífica do milho.
   > [no abstract]
05145|Predicting transcriptional responses to cold stress across plant species
   > trained with only features calculated directly from genome assemblies exhibited only modest decreases in performance relative to models trained by using genomic, chromatin, and evolution/diversity … predicted which genes would respond to cold stress in other related species. Cross-species predictions remained accurate when training was performed in cold-sensitive species and predictions
05146|Lettuce Freshness Classification Using Improved Residual Network (Im-resnet) With Convolutional Block Attention Module (CBAM)
   > contexts. The dataset comprised 6,213 training photos, 791 validation images, and 813 independent testing images obtained from cultivation videos and categorized into fresh and wilted … diverse data partitions and training sessions. In the final evaluation on an independent test dataset, the proposed framework achieved classification accuracy of 98.65 %. The
05147|What Does the Future Hold for Páramo Plants? A Modelling Approach
   > in southern Ecuador and Peru. This study is pioneer in predicting future distribution shifts for páramo plant species overall and provides solid bases to support
05148|Domain Adaptation in Nested Named Entity Recognition From Scientific Articles in Agriculture
   > scientific concepts, methodically established through annotation. This tagset enables the extraction of domain-independent concepts from scientific article abstracts. This study also introduces a cutting-edge deep … entity extraction. Additionally, it presents a pioneering few-shot learning strategy that optimizes cross-domain categorization, mainly when dealing with scarce training data. Notably,
05149|Cross-domain generalization in kidney stone detection: A novel approach with ROI adaptive cropping and coronal-transverse multi-plane models
   > [no abstract]
05150|Tillage Machine Control Based on a Vision System for Soil Roughness and Soil Cover Estimation
   > [no abstract]
05151|Device for robotic picking of strawberries
   > [no term] The article presents a device for collecting strawberry berries, presents a 3D model of an automated manipulator with a computer vision system. The overall dimensions of the manipulator (WxDxH), mm
05152|Unearthing India’s soil moisture anomalies: impact on agriculture and water resource strategies
   > [no abstract]
05153|DIMPSAR: Dataset for Indian medicinal plant species analysis and recognition
   > a dataset of Indian medicinal plant species. The dataset is collected from different regions of Karnataka and Kerala. Datasets include characteristics such as multiple resolutions,
05154|Efficient Farmland Protection System Using Machine Learning Techniques for Animal Identification
   > [no term] Agriculture remains the primary livelihood for millions worldwide, yet wild and stray animals pose a significant threat by damaging crops and endangering farmers' lives. Traditional methods like electrical fencing, chemical
05155|MCDA: a novel domain adaptation with multiple classifiers for crop mapping
   > [no abstract]
05156|Trending against the grain: Bird population responses to expanding energy portfolios in the US Northern Great Plains.
   > gas development. Furthermore, we found that the effect of feedstocks was not generalizable to other forms of agricultural land use. When combined, these land use
05157|Indian Plant Recognition in the Wild
   > [no abstract]
05158|An integrated method for assessing pollution risk of heavy metals specified or unspecified in China’s national standard for agricultural soils: Illust
   > [no abstract]
05159|CLASSIFICATION OF WILD BIRD BY BEHAVIOR WITH FASTER R-CNN FOR COMPLICATED ENVIRONMENT LIKE ORCHARD
   > [no abstract]
05160|HyperKD: Distilling Cross-Spectral Knowledge in Masked Autoencoders via Inverse Domain Shift with Spatial-Aware Masking and Specialized Loss
   > The proliferation of foundation models, pretrained on large-scale unlabeled datasets, has emerged as an effective approach in creating … backbone, HyperKD distills knowledge from Prithvi (a ViT-based MAE geospatial foundation model trained on lower-dimensional multispectral data) into a student tailored for EnMAP hyperspectral imagery. HyperKD addresses the inverse domain adaptation problem with s
05161|BS46 High content high resolution confocal imaging to characterise mutations in the apelin receptor identified in patients from the 100,000 genomes pr
   > [no term] Introduction The apelin receptor is a class A GPCR that binds two endogenous peptide ligands, apelin and elabela/toddler, to regulate the cardiovascular system. Apelin peptide levels are downregulated in pulmonary
05162|An End-to-End Deep Learning Framework for Multi-Scale Cross-Domain Weed Segmentation
   > [no abstract]
05163|Spatio-Temporal Consistent Mapping of Growing Plants for Agricultural Robots in the Wild
   > our approach as a relevant step toward 4D reconstruction for robotic agriculture in the wild.
05164|Integration of ethnobotany and population genetics uncovers the agrobiodiversity of date palms of Siwa Oasis (Egypt) and their importance to the evolu
   > [no term] Crop diversity is shaped by biological and social processes interacting at different spatiotemporal scales. Here we combined population genetics and ethnobotany to investigate date palm (Phoenix dactylifera L.) diversity in
05165|AI-Enabled Real-Time Electric Fence Safety System for Wild Animal Intrusion Detection in Agriculture
   > [no term] Intrusion by the wild animals on agricultural farms is a serious problem which results in crop destruction, economic losses and safety issues to the farmers especially where the areas are
05166|Harnessing Machine Learning for Precise Rainfall Forecasting: A Comparative Study
   > data, including meteorological parameters such as temperature, wind speed, and humidity, from different locations. Preprocessing of the data addresses missing values and uses feature engineering
05167|Four decades of plant community change along a continental gradient of warming
   > sites have revealed biotic changes consistent with climate warming (e.g., upward elevational distribution shifts), but our understanding of the tremendous variation among studies in the … most park where warming has been minimal (Forillon Park), and significant upward distribution shifts in the centrally located park where the recent warming trend has
05168|Fader networks for domain adaptation on fMRI: ABIDE-II study
   > for separate scanning sites. Yet there is still a problem of models transferability between different scanning sites within ABIDE. In the current paper, we for the first time perform domain adaptation for brain pathology classification problem on raw neuroimaging data. We use
05169|Transfer Learning and Domain Adaptation in Hyperspectral Image Processing: an Overview
   > transfer learning: a pre-trained model that works on a large dataset is transferred onto a particular task or a smaller dataset, such as a hyperspectral … features to be captured with lower computational overheads than fully training models. Domain adaptation approaches, including feature alignment and adversarial training, are also adapted to overcome limitations caused by the domain shift phenom
05170|Parameter-Efficient Domain Adaptation and Lightweight Decoding for Agricultural Monocular Depth Estimation
   > on the WE3DS dataset indicate that, although Depth-Anything-V3 provides the strongest zero-shot generalization among the evaluated baselines, target-domain adaptation is still necessary for WE3DS agricultural scenes. After adaptation, AgriLoRA-DA achieves … for deployable depth estimation in crop-row scenes similar to WE3DS, while broader cross-dataset validation remains an important direction for
05171|A rapid assessment of Water Hyacinth (aquatic vegetation) mapping using machine learning for Circular Economic Opportunity in Sri Lanka
   > into ecological management and offer a scalable model for similar assessments in other regions.
05172|A Method for Plant Diseases Detection Based on Transfer Learning and Data Enhancement
   > [no term] With the wide application of deep learning in the field of agriculture, how to quickly and accurately identify and process structured and unstructured monitoring data to support intelligent decision-making has
05173|Wild edible plants oxymoron: Higher abundance in lower wilderness
   > [no term]  Background: Wild edible plants (WEPs) have long underpinned subsistence strategies and cultural traditions in rural Europe, yet regional syntheses remain scarce. Therefore, this research aims to provide a comprehensive
05174|Efficient Early Warning System in Identifying Enset Bacterial Wilt Disease using Transfer Learning
   > a dataset that includes 99 popular enset clones we collected from five different locations in Ethiopia with varying altitudes, climates, and weather conditions.
05175|Transcriptional phenocopies of deleterious KEAP1 mutations correlate with survival outcomes in lung cancer treated with immunotherapy.
   > level. The association between KEAPness and survival outcomes was tested in two independent cohorts of advanced NSCLC patients treated with immunotherapy and profiled by RNA-Seq … progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) compared to KEAPness-free cases in independent cohorts of NSCLC patients treated with immunotherapy (SU2C PFS P=0.042, OS P=0.008;
05176|Fatty Acid Composition of Some Seed Oils from Arid Zone of Rajasthan and their Iodine Values for Scope in Biodiesel Production using ANN Technique
   > [no abstract]
05177|Reproducible reliability benchmarking for crop–weed visual perception under dataset shift
   > [no abstract]
05178|Evaluation of DNA Methylation Array for Glioma Tumor Profiling and Description of a Novel Epi-Signature to Distinguish IDH1/IDH2 Mutant and Wild-Type 
   > [no term] Molecular biomarkers, such as IDH1/IDH2 mutations and 1p19q co-deletion, are included in the histopathological and clinical criteria currently used to diagnose and classify gliomas. IDH1/IDH2 mutation is a common feature
05179|Relative availability of inorganic N-pools shifts under land use change: An unexplored variable in soil carbon dynamics
   > [no abstract]
05180|Development and Validation of Soil Temperature Model for Precision Agriculture Using Machine Learning and Heterogeneous Data
   > model with second-degree polynomial features demonstrated the best balance of accuracy and generalization, achieving an R2 of 0.510 and an RMSE of 2.49°C on an out-of-distribution test set. It significantly outperformed the overfitted Random Forest model (R2=0.197). The
05181|An Empirical Study on Machine Learning Models for Potato Leaf Disease Classification using RGB Images
   > [no term] In this work, an empirical study is conducted on classification models built using RGB images of potato leaves. A series of experiments are done by training convolutional neural network (CNN)
05182|Dynamic patterning by the Drosophila pair-rule network reconciles long-germ and short-germ segmentation
   > in the trunk, and provides a functional role for observed posterior-to-anterior gap domain shifts that occur during cellularisation. The model also suggests revised patterning mechanisms
05183|YOLO-IAPs: A Rapid Detection Method for Invasive Alien Plants in the Wild Based on Improved YOLOv9
   > and control. To realize accurate and rapid detection of invasive alien plants in the wild, we proposed a rapid detection approach grounded in an advanced
05184|Self-Correcting Inference for Land Cover Mapping via Test-Time Domain Adaptation
   > deployment of autonomous systems in land cover mapping, addressing the challenge of domain shifts without relying on labeled target data. The proposed approach leverages entropy minimization and feature modulation to enable models to autonomously adapt to unseen target domains, characterized by variations in environmental factors, sensor properties, or data distributions.
05185|Plant and Disease Recognition Based on PMF Pipeline Domain Adaptation Method: Using Bark Images as Meta-Dataset
   > labeled data for training. To address this issue, we modified a SOTA Cross-Domain Few-shot Learning (CDFSL) method based on prototypical networks and attention mechanisms. We … The results showed that the modified pipeline was able to recognize several cross-domain datasets using generic representations, and achieved up to 96.95% and 94.07% classification
05186|Genetic diversity analyses of Thymus daenensis and Thymus eriocalyx ecotypes using ISSR molecular marker
   > [no abstract]
05187|APPLICATION OF LLM + ZERO-SHOT LARGE MODELS FOR FRUIT OBJECT DETECTION
   > sensitivity to meet diverse field requirements. Experimental evaluations demonstrated the framework's strong generalizability and semantic understanding capabilities, allowing recognition of unseen fruit categories and attributes such as ripeness or color. The system significantly … enhancing accessibility through natural language interaction. To ensure a robust evaluation of generalizability, a c
05188|Classification using Sum of Ranking Differences of Outlier Measures
   > [no abstract]
05189|Model updating for the classification of different varieties of maize seeds from different years by hyperspectral imaging coupled with a pre-labeling 
   > [no abstract]
05190|Identification and evaluation of important agronomic traits in 49 synthetic hexaploid wheat (AABBDD) germplasm resources grown on the Qinghai-Tibet Pl
   > breeding and improvement of new wheat varieties in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau and other regions with similar climatic conditions. The coefficient of variation for important agronomic
05191|Notes on Crassulaceae 3
   > [no abstract]
05192|Deal Cash: Digital Platform Trending Pemasaran Hasil Pertanian dalam Meningkatkan Perekonomian di Era 4.0
   > capital and marketing. This research examines Deal Cash: Digital Marketing Platform for Independent Agricultural Products in Improving the Economy in Era 4.0. This research uses
05193|Image-Based Quantitative Analysis of Epidermal Morphology in Wild Potato Leaves
   > [no term] The epidermal leaf patterns of plants exhibit remarkable diversity in cell shapes, sizes, and arrangements, driven by environmental interactions that lead to significant adaptive changes even among closely related species.
05194|Two-Stage UAV Recognition of Single and Multiple Wild Arrowhead Plants in Paddy Fields Using YOLOv8n and Patch Classification
   > mean average precision at an intersection over union (IoU) of 0.50 (mAP50) decreased slightly from 0.7023 to 0.7016. The optimized pipeline achieved 88.89 frames per
05195|First Experiences with the AlphaEarth Foundations Model: A Cosine Distance-Based Evaluation
   > improved slightly compared to traditional methods. We also examined the spatial and temporal transferability of the approach, emphasizing its potential for broader applications in land
05196|ICON: Implicit Clothed humans Obtained from Normals
   > with heavily limited training data. Additionally, it is much more robust to out-of-distribution samples, e.g., in-the-wild poses/images and out-of-frame cropping. ICON takes a step towards
05197|Evaluation of Agricultural Product Logistics Capability in Hubei Province Based on Factor Analysis and Cluster Analysis
   > these factors, the study evaluates and calculates the logistics capability scores for different regions, providing a quantitative basis for comparison. Furthermore, cluster analysis is applied
05198|NIMG-20. IMAGING PATTERN ANALYSIS REVEALS THREE DISTINCT PHENOTYPIC SUBTYPES OF GBM WITH DIFFERENT SURVIVAL RATES
   > [no abstract]
05199|xLSTM-Based Framework for Accurate Rainfall Forecasting Across Bangladesh: A Comparative Analysis with LSTM and GRU
   > a 70 -year historical weather data set which was gathered at 36 different locations across Bangladesh. We also addressed the common problem of class imbalance
05200|Model Extraction Attack and Its Countermeasure for Denoising Diffusion Implicit Models
   > of DDIM. In the proposed method, we add a small number of out-of-distribution images, referred to as “marking images”, to the training dataset of a … the proposed defense method can correctly detect all clone models without seriously degrading the usability of victim DDIM models.
05201|Functional genomic studies of novel players in innate immunity and classification of promoter activation patterns of the AtPROPEP genes and their corr
   > [no abstract]
05202|Robot World Models Are Not Invariant to How the Actions Are Written
   > it silently. We show the inheritance is catastrophic. A latent dynamics model trained on one parameterization and handed the identical commanded trajectory written in the other collapses: retrieval degrades by 2.6-13.4x across three robot datasets and two morphologies, goal-conditioned action selection … near-orthogonal (cos = 0.067, worst case -0.377), so the predictor does not degrade gracefully
05203|Analisis Rantai Pasok (Supply Chain) Komoditas Cabai Rawit di Pasar Kalisat Kabupaten Jember
   > [no term] Chili is a commodity that is much loved by most people in Indonesia, besides that this one plant is easy to cultivate. Jember Regency is one of the chili producing
05204|Regression Models Exploration to Measure Available Phosphorus in Soil Based on Middle Infrared Spectroscopy
   > collected by the Brazilian Soil Spectral Library (BraSpecS), which analyzed soils from different regions of the country. The spectral functions of the library were collected
05205|The Effects of Gene Duplication Modes on the Evolution of Regulatory Divergence in Wild and Cultivated Soybean
   > [no term] Regulatory changes include divergence in both cis-elements and trans-factors, which play roles in organismal evolution. Whole genome duplications (WGD) followed by diploidization are a recurrent feature in the evolutionary history
05206|Data-centric AI approach for automated wildflower monitoring
   > seasons and expert annotated, contains 2002 top-view images of flowering plants captured ‘in the wild’ in five different landscape types (roadsides, urban green spaces, cropland,
05207|A Proposal for Nature Conservation on Mt. Yeonin in Gyeonggi-do
   > [no term] This investigation was performed to figure out the distribution of Korean endemic species, phytogeographically rare plants and endangered species, and invader species on Mt. Yeonin in Gyeonggo-do from August till
05208|Construction of a mathematical model and numerical study of interaction between moisture-, heat-, and mass transfer processes of salt solutions in an 
   > [no term] Methods of mathematical modeling and computer simulation were used to investigate the influence of interrelated processes of transfer of saline solutions in the unsaturated soil layer. To this end, a
05209|An Improved iTransformer with RevIN and SSA for Greenhouse Soil Temperature Prediction
   > of pivotal features, such as soil temperature. Furthermore, to mitigate the prevalent distribution shift issues inherent in time-series data, Reversible Instance Normalization (RevIN) is incorporated
05210|Partial replacement of red and processed meat with legumes: a modelling study of the impact on nutrient intakes and nutrient adequacy on the populatio
   > the average intakes of fibre, folate, K, Mg, Cu and Fe, and decreases in intakes of saturated fat, niacin, vitamin B12, Se and Zn. Meaningful … folate towards improvement in intakes emerged already in ‘scenario 70 g’. Overall, distribution shifts towards a higher probability of inadequate intakes of the studied nutrients
05211|Real-Time Wild Animal Detection in Farmland Using Camera-Based Deep Learning and an Android Alert System
   > [no abstract]
05212|SPG related to the spast gene (SPG4): case report of a novel variant
   > [no term] Case presentation: Female patient, 65 years old, non-consanguineous parents, weakness and stiffness in the lower limbs 25 years ago in a progressive evolution. She denies abnormalities in sensitivity, dysphagia or
05213|Differentiation of cumin seeds using a metal-oxide based gas sensor array in tandem with chemometric tools.
   > [no abstract]
05214|Splicing Localization in Tampered Blurred Images
   > the second image. Doing so, the difference in the blur type of different regions can leave a trace for tracking the forgery, that is, the blur type of different regions are going to be inconsistent if the source and spliced images
05215|Agricultural Crop Yield Prediction using Regression Models with Prominent Feature
   > to increase the yield of various crops grown in all seasons in different regions of the world. The model integrates prominent features, such as weather
05216|From Intra-Distinctiveness to Inter-Invariance: A Cycle-Resemblance Few-Shot Transformation Network for Cross-Domain Hyperspectral Image Classificatio
   > For large-scale mapping applications, cross-domain hyperspectral image classification (HSIC) has emerged as a highly promising research area. However, the classification accuracy decreased significantly when unseen classes emerged. Few shot learning (FSL) methods are adopted in cross-domain HSIC methods to address this problem. Despite this, existing cross-domain HSIC methods still have three key 
05217|Deoxyribonucleic Acid Based Oryza Sativa Phenotype Prediction Using Molecular Neural Network
   > and convolutional layers. We preprocess the DNA sequences using one-hot encoding and data partitioning for testing, validation, and training as part of our technique. A
05218|Digital Project Execution – Optimizing Your Assets
   > [no abstract]
05219|Developmental age and FAAH genetic variation converge to mediate fear regulation in female mice
   > [no term] Anxiety disorders are more prevalent in females than in males yet a majority of basic neuroscience studies are performed in males. Furthermore, anxiety disorders peak in prevalence during adolescence, yet
05220|Anti-Nutritional Factors of Plant Protein Feeds for Ruminants and Methods for Their Elimination
   > [no term] Simple Summary Ruminants are closely related to human life because they are able to convert plants into nutrients available to humans, including meat and milk. In modern agriculture, ruminant feeds
05221|LAND USE PLANNING AT MECHANICAL FARM SECTOR-WEST OF NUBARIA USING PARAMETRIC MODELS
   > [no abstract]
05222|ReLeaf: Benchmarking Leaf Segmentation across Domains and Species
   > model configuration to provide the best trade-off for real-world precision-agriculture tasks. Extensive cross-domain generalization experiments reveal substantial performance drops across plant species and recording setups, especially … plant species, created via semi-automatic annotation of selected CropAndWeed images. A model trained on all four existing datasets achieves a mean mAP50-95 of 83.9
05223|Determination of total phenolic compounds in yerba mate (Ilex paraguariensis) combining near infrared spectroscopy (NIR) and multivariate analysis
   > [no abstract]
05224|Efficient Grapevine Structure Estimation in Vineyards Conditions
   > Developing computer vision systems for agricultural tasks that work in real-world conditions and in real time is challenging, especially if they need to
05225|Investigation geographic origin of Laurus nobilis L. leaves using FTIR, SEM-EDX, and XRD analysis
   > L. is a polypragmatic plant with high added value. Leaves collected from different regions in the natural state without breeding have different economic values. In
05226|Distributionally Robust Model Predictive Control for Virtual Power Plants
   > [no term] This paper presents a distributionally robust model predictive control (DRMPC) framework for the optimal Virtual Power Plant (VPP) operation under electricity price uncertainty. A unified VPP model is formulated that
05227|Inhibition of Pre-BCR Signaling Mediates a Metabolic Switch in B-Cell Progenitor Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
   > [no term]  Despite improvements in overall survival for children with B-cell progenitor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL), it remains the second-leading cause of cancer related death in children with approximately 200 deaths
05228|Bayesian and Partially Bayesian Neural Networks for Static Tabular Classification: A Review and Benchmark
   > [no term] Conventional deep neural networks may produce overconfident and poorly calibrated predictions in small-sample, noisy, and distribution-shift scenarios. Bayesian parameter modeling provides a way to quantify uncertainty in BNNs, but full
05229|Convolutional Domain Adaptation Network for Fault Diagnosis of Thermal System under Different Loading Conditions
   > loading conditions to improve classification accuracy, this paper proposes a new convolutional domain adaptation network for fault diagnosis of thermal system in the power plant.
05230|Impact of climate change on the distribution of insectivorous bats: Implications for small-scale farming in southern Mexico
   > is particularly relevant for small-scale farmers. However, climate change is causing a decrease in bat populations. To assess the potential impacts of climate change on … Chiapas Highlands in southern Mexico we developed a three-step protocol: (1) projecting distribution shifts of insectivorous bats under climate change scenarios using non-dispersal and limited-full
05231|THE SALVE RESEARCH PROJECT: SARNO RIVER PLAIN – ANCIENT LIFE IN THE VESUVIAN ENVIRONMENT (CAMPANIA, ITALIA)
   > [no abstract]
05232|Master thesis : One-Shot Learning for Face Recognition
   > [no abstract]
05233|Dual-Guided Semi-Supervised Semantic Segmentation for Citrus Quality Evaluation
   > segmentation models in terms of segmentation performance, parameters, and inference speed. In cross-dataset validation, the model exhibits robust generalization capabilities, achieving performance comparable to supervised-only methods trained on the full augmented dataset. Consequently, the framework introduced in this study
05234|MAchine learning for environmental Time Series ( MATS ) Coordinator :
   > [no abstract]
05235|Multi-Task Learning with CORAL-Based Feature Alignment for Cross-Domain Plant Disease Detection
   > achieve near-perfect accuracy on controlled datasets such as PlantVillage, yet their performance degrades substantially when deployed on real-world field images due to domain shift. This gap between laboratory and field conditions limits practical applicability in … investigate whether multi-task learning (MTL), combined with CORALbased domain alignment, can improve cross-domain generalization for
05236|Development of Technologies for Prevention of Wild-Animal Related Losses to Agricultural Fields
   > [no abstract]
05237|GeneWeaver: finding consilience in heterogeneous cross-species functional genomics data
   > diseases through their genomic substrates. The GeneWeaver.org system provides a platform for cross-species integration and interrogation of heterogeneous curated and experimentally derived functional genomics data. … consisting of gene sets and putative biological networks, are mapped onto one another through gene identifiers and homology across species. A versatile suite of interactive
05238|A hybrid AI factor framework for longitudinal analysis of multidimensional poverty status
   > and 2020/21 were analyzed in two setups. First, the data were analyzed independently, where training and testing was done for each wave, while in the … testing set to uncover temporal effects. Results reveal that, analyzing the waves independently in the first setup, extreme gradient boosting (XGBoosting) outperforms other algorithms whereas including temporal variation in the second setup, Genera
05239|Γ-VAE: Curvature regularized variational autoencoders for uncovering emergent low dimensional geometric structure in high dimensional data
   > general trends across multiple non-neighboring data clusters, thereby limiting their interpretability and generalizability to out-of-distribution data. Here, we address both of these limitations by regularizing the curvature … associated with different cancer cell types, and accurately re-embed tissues from completely unseen, out-of distribution cancers as if they were originally trained on them. 
05240|Domain Adaptation Applied to microRNA Target Prediction
   > the species of interest. In this paper we explore the use of domain adaptation as a means to intelligently increase the available training data by … training species. Through a variety of experiments, we discovered that, on average, domain adaptation improves the performance of miRNA target predictors. Significant performance gains can
05241|Distribution characteristics and source of BTEX in groundwater in Guangzhou, Guangdong Province, P. R. China
   > [no term] : In order to find out the distribution characteristics of BTEX in groundwater, which include Benzene, Toluene, Ethylbenzene, p-Xylene, m-Xylene, and o-Xylene, 82 groups of groundwater samples and 10 surface
05242|Applying Deep Learning and Transfer Learning Techniques for Improving Animal Intrusion Detection in Agriculture Farms
   > [no term] Due to the nature of farmlands or provincial landscapes, monitoring is required to keep unauthorized persons out of the region and to safeguard the district from wildlife. Various techniques point
05243|Biological indicators of response and resistance to PARP inhibition in BRCA wild-type breast cancer.
   > [no abstract]
05244|Scale transfer learning of hyperspectral prediction model of heavy metal content in maize: From laboratory to satellite
   > in farmland maize. However, due to the difference between the laboratory spectra (source domain) and satellite spectra (target domain), the direct transfer of laboratory models to the satellite scale has … poor results. To address this challenge, multiple factors, including spectral feature selection, domain adaptation, regression methods, and correction models were taken into account to construct
05245|Habitat‐ and species‐mediated short‐ and long‐term distributional changes in waterbird abundance linked to variation in European winter weather
   > Many species are showing distribution shifts in response to environmental change. We explored (a) the effects of
05246|Types of Indian Tea, Production and Marketing of Traditional and Handmade Teas of Assam, India
   > [no term] Teas are classified in various ways depending manufacturing process, convention, technique and market available form. An exhaustive classification based on market available forms classifies Indian teas into eleven broad categories.
05247|DETECTING AND VERIFYING MICROSATELLITE MARKERS ASSOCIATED WITH DISEASE RESISTANCE IN CULTURED POPULATIONS OF EASTERN OYSTERS, CRASSOSTREA VIRGINICA
   > in disease-resistant QTLs (Cv02i23, Cvi1g3, and RUCV 97) exhibited significant post-mortality allelic distribution shifts in one site but not the other. Significant differences in allelic
05248|The role of dispersal limitation and reforestation in shaping the distributional shift of a forest herb under climate change
   > [no term] Forest herbs might be unable to track shifts in habitat suitability due to rapid climate change and habitat fragmentation. In this study, we quantified the role of dispersal limitation and
05249|Nonlinear Time-Series Adaptation for Land Cover Classification
   > [no abstract]
05250|Online Solar Energy Prediction for Energy-Harvesting Internet of Things Devices
   > errors of 1.5 J and 1.1 J in predictions under same and different locations, respectively. We also demonstrate that using the proposed approach in an
05251|Evaluating Generalizability of Convolutional Deep Learning Models for Plant Disease Classification
   > datasets, yet practical deployment in agricultural settings remains challenging due to performance degradation under real world conditions. In this paper, we investigate the extent to … stable performance across diverse imaging contexts, achieving F1-scores above 0.93 with negligible degradation when transitioning from laboratory to field settings. In contrast, lightweight architectures designed f
05252|Smart visual sensors for real time weather and ground conditions recognition for agricultural robotics
   > we conduct extensive experiments to demonstrate the effectiveness of the system in real-world conditions and its significance in advancing agricultural robotics, fostering sustainable farming practices
05253|Beyond Accuracy: Robustness and Calibration Evaluation of Deep Learning Models for Plant Disease Detection
   > in classification, real-world agricultural applications often present environmental noise, image corruptions, and distribution shifts that can heavily downgrade model reliability. This work moves beyond accuracy
05254|Leveraging multiple datasets for deep leaf counting
   > achieve this performance without knowing the experimental origin of the data (i.e. “in the wild” setting of the challenge). We also compare the counting accuracy … our model with that of per leaf segmentation algorithms, achieving a 20% decrease in mean absolute difference in count (|DiC|).
05255|Trustworthy Hand Signal Communication Between Smart IoT Agents and Humans
   > scenarios. When selecting an error level $\alpha=0.10$, it provided 100% accuracy for out-of-distribution test sets.
05256|Global change-driven plant adaptive strategies and interspecific interaction networks: from molecular regulation to ecological management
   > Integrating functional trait data with species distribution models enables quantitative forecasting of distribution shifts and identification of ecologically vulnerable zones. Such predictive outputs provide the
05257|Deep-Plant-Disease Dataset Is All You Need for Plant Disease Identification
   > address the complexities of real-world agricultural scenarios, such as multi crop disease, unseen, few-shot, and domain shift adaptation. Additionally, the lack of standardized evaluation protocols and benchmark datasets … and most diverse dataset with novel text data designed to enhance model generalization in multi crop disease identification. We revisit and reformulate the task by
05258|FIELD: Fuzzy Inference for Efficient Learner Decision in Agronomic Task
   > methods that stay stable, easy to understand, and can be reproduced across different sites, seasons, and cultivars. FIELD is a compact procedure for selecting a … effectiveness of each model. It measures the average absolute error on an external test set with truly unseen data. It checks how concentrated or spread out those test errors are
05259|Greater white‐fronted goose habitat use in Louisiana provides water depth management insights
   > could improve habitat quality and potentially mitigate some effects of the winter distribution shift. 
05260|Thermal image segmentation in weedy fields via synthetic RGB-trained models and GAN-based cross-modality alignment
   > calibration. Results demonstrated that combining synthetic data with limited manual annotations and cross-domain translation via generative models can significantly boost segmentation performance in complex field
05261|Research on Precision Identification of Plant Diseases and Pests Based on Multimodal Deep Learning
   > cross-modal feature interactions between visible and hyperspectral data; (2) designing a dynamic domain adaptation algorithm (DDA) to automatically correct feature shifts caused by environmental disturbances
05262|Automatic Weed Detection using CCOA based YOLO Network in Soybean Field
   > \%$ of crop failures in the gardening sector. This ratio can be decreased via an actual wild plant detecting technique. Because of the large variety
05263|The transcription factor VaWRKY72 from Vitis amurensis positively regulates cold tolerance in Arabidopsis thaliana and grapevine
   > [no abstract]
05264|Subcellular Proteomics as a Unified Approach of Experimental Localizations and Computed Prediction Data for Arabidopsis and Crop Plants.
   > [no abstract]
05265|Topological imaging of single-cell CAF heterogeneity for predicting prognosis and adjuvant chemotherapy benefit in pancreatic cancer.
   > identify prognosis-associated CAF subpopulations. A nine-gene CAPR score was validated across four independent transcriptomic cohorts (n = 594). A CT-based topological data analysis (TDA) classifier (ra-CAPR) was developed in an institutional cohort (n = 122), externally validated in the TCIA cohort (n = 50), and evaluated in an independent surgical cohort (n = 657), with performance benchmarked a
05266|Triggering Failures: Out-Of-Distribution detection by learning from local adversarial attacks in Semantic Segmentation
   > [no abstract]
05267|Yieldfusion: Enhancing Yield Prediction with Transfer Learning
   > storage planning. Our study presents the YieldFusion model, integrating Time2Vec embedding and domain adaptation through transfer learning. The model incorporates temporal convolutional networks, bidirectional LSTM,
05268|Modelling and mapping soil pH in Andalusia (Spain) using phenological products as predictor features
   > digital soil mapping</p><p>We developed a pH model using 3215 pH measurements at different locations together with three types of predictor features: terrain (elevation, slope, hydrological
05269|RoCoLe: A robusta coffee leaf images dataset for evaluation of machine learning based methods in plant diseases recognition
   > severity of disease (leaf area with spots). Images were all obtained in real-world conditions in the same coffee plants field using a smartphone camera. RoCoLe
05270|A Multi-Source Cross-Domain Data Fusion Framework for Ordinal Health-State Assessment: A Reproducible Surrogate Benchmark Motivated by Hydrogen-Cooled
   > [no term] Real-world fault data for hydrogen-cooled turbogenerators are scarce and largely proprietary, which hinders data-driven health assessment aligned with severity standards. This paper proposes a standards-aligned, multi-source ordinal fusion framework and
05271|Woody species with high wood density are more vulnerable to global change in South China
   > woody species, which because of their longevity offer unique opportunities to monitor distribution shifts. The study addresses the following questions (1) how the distribution range … case precipitation of the driest month was ranked third) driven variables described distribution shifts best. Wood density summarized well the susceptibility of those plants to
05272|Semi-supervised Domain Adaptation via Minimax Entropy Supplementary Material 1. Datasets
   > [no abstract]
05273|Consumption of ultra-processed foods in Canada.
   > [no abstract]
05274|Enhancing Plant Identification: Exploring Deep Learning for Herbarium Specimen Classification
   > [no term] Herbarium specimen is a preserved plant specimen collected from the wild or cultivated sources that is carefully mounted, dried, and stored for scientific purposes. It is necessary to have an
05275|Enhancing Visual Domain Robustness in Behaviour Cloning via Saliency-Guided Augmentation
   > as Random Crop and Color Jitter often fall short under substantial visual domain shifts, including changes in shadows, distractors, and backgrounds. Superimposition-based augmentations, which blend in-domain and out-of-domain images, have shown promise for improving generalization in computer vision, but their suitability for BC remains uncertain because task-critical … show that RoboSaGA preserve
05276|Processes affecting altitudinal distribution of invasive Ageratina adenophora in western Himalaya: The role of local adaptation and the importance of 
   > [no term] The spread of invasive plants along elevational gradients is considered a threat to fragile mountain ecosystems, but it can also provide the opportunity to better understand some of the basic
05277|LAVA:Label-efficient Visual Learning and Adaptation
   > recent innovations to enable adapting to partially labelled datasets with class and domain shifts. First, LAVA learns self-supervised visual representations on the source dataset and
05278|Learning Video Representations without Natural Videos
   > (e.g., motion, acceleration, and shape transformations). The downstream performance of video models pre-trained on these generated datasets gradually increases with the dataset progression. A VideoMAE model pre-trained on our synthetic videos closes 97.2\% of the performance gap on UCF101 … pre-training and outperforms the UCF101 pre-trained model on 11 out of 14 out-of-distribution datasets of UC
05279|Fault Detection of Oil Palm Harvesting Using Yolo V4
   > [no term] Oil palm is one of the most important vegetable oil-producing plants. Currently, oil palm grows as a wild (forest), semi-wild, and cultivated plant that has spread to many countries with
05280|Massive land system changes impact water quality of the Jhelum River in Kashmir Himalaya
   > [no abstract]
05281|Predicting the Invasion Potential of Pink Muhly (Muhlenbergia capillaris) in South Korea
   > [no abstract]
05282|Conformal Recovery-Deadline Certificates for Runtime Assurance of Adapting Controllers
   > prove marginal coverage, a weighted extension that restores coverage under a known fault-distribution shift, and group-conditional Mondrian coverage. We demonstrate all three on two unrelated
05283|Remaining Oil Distribution Law and Potential Tapping Strategy of Horizontal Well Pattern in Narrow Oil Rim Reservoir with Gas Cap and Edge Water
   > [no term] For thin oil rim reservoir with gas cap and edge water, it is helpful to improve the development effect to find out the distribution law of remaining oil in this
05284|Analisis Tingkat Kerawanan Longsor Dengan Integrasi Analytical Hierarchy Process dan Pemodelan Spasial Sistem Informasi Geografis di Kabupaten Aceh Te
   > [no term] Southeast Aceh District in Aceh Province is a district that often experiences landslides. High rainfall (>1600 mm/year) and hilly areas with slope levels above 40% are also indicators of landslide
05285|Cascade-Forward Neural Network in Identification of Plant Species of Desert Based on Wild Flowers
   > [no term] Tremendous improvements in Flower image description induced much interest in image based plant species identification. Rare species of desert plants are at risk and it is necessary to maintain record
05286|Spatio-Temporal Dynamics of Landscape Use by the Bumblebee Bombus atratus (Hymenoptera: Apidae) and its relationship with pollen provisioning
   > [no term] Understanding how bees use resources at a landscape scale is essential for developing meaningful management plans that sustain populations and the pollination services they provide. Bumblebees are important pollinators for
05287|XGSEA: CROSS-species Gene Set Enrichment Analysis via domain adaptation
   > (source, say mouse) is a vital and challenging problem, which we call CROSS-species Gene Set Enrichment Problem (XGSEP). For XGSEP, we propose XGSEA (Cross-species Gene Set Enrichment Analysis), with three steps of: 1) running GSEA for … sets; 2) representing the relation between source and target gene sets by domain adaptation; and 3) using regression to predict p-values of target gene sets,
05288|Changes in Extreme Precipitation across 30 Global River Basins
   > and Amu Darya River basin (ADR) in the Middle East, while a decrease in RX3day and RX5day were seen over the Amur River basin in
05289|Can UAVs fill the gap between in situ surveys and satellites for habitat mapping?
   > technical limitations (e.g. spectral mismatches between sensors), which can be overcome using domain adaptation.
05290|Abstract A052: Pharmacologic conversion of cancer-associated fibroblasts from a protumor phenotype to an antitumor phenotype improves the sensitivity 
   > converted into Meflin-negative CAFs during cancer progression by cell lineage experiments. Interestingly, another previous study demonstrated that the number of Meflin+ rCAFs positively correlated with
05291|Hyperparameter Tuning with Optuna to optimize the YOLOv11n Model for Weed Detection
   > lightweight object detection model, to achieve high precision in weed identification under real-world conditions. The novelty of this study lies in the application of Optuna,
05292|Research on Data Interpolation Model with Missing Data for Intelligent Greenhouse Control
   > in order to enhance the comparability of the same period data in different years, the model deal measure with the data, using fuzzy technology processing
05293|Predicting drivers of nuisance macrophyte cover in a regulated California stream using boosted regression tree models
   > [no abstract]
05294|Estimating the climate change-driven global distribution of Fusarium proliferatum and mycotoxin risk assessment under future warming scenarios
   > [no term]  Fusarium proliferatum is a globally distributed fungal pathogen of major agricultural significance, responsible for considerable crop losses and the production of hazardous mycotoxins that endanger food security and human
05295|The relationship between seed vigor tests and field emergence of wheat lots
   > [no term] The study aimed to predict the correlation between field emergence of fresh and old wheat seed lots for three wheat varieties: Sakha 95, Sakha 94, and Misr 3. To assess
05296|Hyperspectral imaging to oversee the status of baby leaf vegetable crops: the Agrofiliere Project results
   > [no term] This communication reports a compendium of vegetation indices and hyperspectral band ranges relevant for monitoring the main cryptogamic diseases of wild rocket based on an overview of the recently published
05297|Alzheimer’s Disease and Neurosyphilis: Meaningful Commonalities and Differences of Clinical Phenotype and Pathophysiological Biomarkers
   > data on pathophysiological AD candidate biomarkers are controversial. Finally, psychometric testing using cross-domain cognitive tests, may highlight a wider range of compromised functions in neurosyphilis,
05298|The introduced and invasive flora of Bermuda
   > are considered invasive. We define invasive species as non-native to Bermuda, reproducing in the wild and recruiting offspring at multiple sites, dispersed over long distances
05299|Real-Time Recognition of Dynamic Gestures in Pakistan Sign Language Using YOLO and LSTM Networks
   > individuals, yet many recognition systems remain limited by static‐gesture assumptions and weak generalization to realistic acquisition variability. This paper presents a real‐time dynamic Pakistan Sign … dim), and three capture distances (2, 3, and 4 ft). To address generalization concerns, we report signer‐independent leave‐one‐subject‐out (LOSO) evaluation with mean ± standard deviation, along 
05300|The truth is in the isotopes: Authenticating regionally unique South African lamb.
   > [no abstract]
05301|Distributionally Robust Classifiers in Sentiment Analysis
   > [no term] In this paper, we propose sentiment classification models based on BERT integrated with DRO (Distributionally Robust Classifiers) to improve model performance on datasets with distributional shifts. We added 2-Layer Bi-LSTM,
05302|Fault Diagnosis of PV Modules based on Convolution Neural Network and Out-of-distribution Detection
   > classifier is used to detect faulty PV modules. Moreover, we introduce an Out-Of-Distribution (OOD) detection algorithm to identify and eliminate false PV modules, which actually
05303|Multiscale Multifeature Vision Learning for Scalable and Efficient Wastewater Treatment Plant Detection using Hi-Res Satellite Imagery and OSM
   > power of deep learning-based object detection models, namely Yolov6, RTMDET, EfficientDET, and Domain Adaptation, to accurately and efficiently identify WTP locations worldwide. Our approach focuses
05304|Multimodal large language models for low-resource languages and Global South deployment: A comprehensive survey of architectures, benchmarks, and soci
   > and images at an unprecedented scale. The technical literature on MLLM efficiency, domain adaptation, and benchmarking has matured into a substantial corpus. However, the overwhelming
05305|Characterization, quantitation and similarity evaluation of Codonopsis lanceolata from different regions in China by HPLC-Q-TQF-MS and chemometrics
   > [no abstract]
05306|A Multi-Temporal Landsat Data Analysis for Land-use/Land-cover Change in Haridwar Region using Remote Sensing Techniques
   > changes in LU/LC of the Haridwar region. The satellite data of the different years 1996, 2003, 2010 and 2017 downloaded from USGS Earth Explorer. The … change detection of the LU/LC proved that the orchards area has been decreased very rapidly by 11806.65 ha (9.82%) and converted permanently in urban and
05307|Disease Identification Device for Tomato Health Monitoring Using Lightweight Convolutional Neural Networks
   > [no term] Tomato production in resource-limited regions suffers significant yield losses due to foliar diseases, while manual inspection remains labor intensive, subjective, and impractical for smallholder farmers. This research develops a disease
05308|A Dataset for Semantic and Instance Segmentation of Modern Fruit Orchards
   > To address prohibitive costs of annotating numerous tree branches, we study unsupervised domain adaptation from synthetic to real data. For this setting, we propose a
05309|ANALISIS KELAYAKAN USAHA KOPRA PUTIH DENGAN SISTEM PENGOLAHAN GREEN HOUSE DAN PROSPEK PENGEMBANGANNYA PADA MASYARAKAT TANI KECAMATAN KULISUSU UTARA KA
   > [no term] Copra is the white flesh of the coconut fruit which is dried in the sun or using artificial heat for several days so that it can become copra. The prospect
05310|SAM2 for Image and Video Segmentation: A Comprehensive Survey
   > for image and video segmentation, existing models continue to face challenges in cross-domain adaptability and generalization. Image and video segmentation are fundamental tasks in computer vision with wide-ranging … performance in specialized areas such as medical imaging and the challenges of cross-domain adaptability. As part of our research, we reviewed over 200 related papers
05311|Dual-Level Domain Alignment and Boundary-Aware Optimization for Semisupervised Tree Crown Instance Segmentation in UAV Imagery
   > for fine-scale orchard monitoring. A core challenge lies in the significant performance degradation when models are transferred across orchards with differing illumination, canopy structures, and background conditions. Semisupervised domain adaptation (SSDA) offers a label-efficient solution. However, existing methods predominantly align global … demonstrate that, with only 10% of labeled target d
05312|Revisiting Prototypical Network for Cross Domain Few-Shot Learning
   > is a popular few-shot solver that aims at establishing a feature metric generalizable to novel few-shot classification (FSC) tasks using deep neural networks. However, its performance drops dramatically when generalizing to the FSC tasks in new domains. In this study, we revisit … classes in the meta-training tasks within a pre-defined domain, but fail to generalize across domains as some desirabl
05313|Integrating PROSPECT-D physics and adversarial domain adaptation resnet for robust cross-ecosystem plant traits estimation
   > as a pivotal tool for multi-trait mapping; however, existing methods exhibit limited generalizability across ecosystems, land cover types, and sensor modalities. Challenges such as data heterogeneity, domain shifts, and sparse in situ measurements further hinder model generalization. To address these limitations, this study developed PPADA-Net, a novel framework integrating PROSPECT-D radiative tr
05314|Patterns and drivers of wildfire occurrence and post-fire vegetation
   > [no abstract]
05315|Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence Applications
   > Rongchen Li, Siyu Wu, and Sami Mian, proposes and establishes a reliable cross-domain authentication scheme by using blockchain techniques, which solves the issues occurring during
05316|Probability estimation of narcolepsy type 1 in DTA mice using unlabeled EEG and EMG data
   > features were used to train an L1-penalized logistic regression classifier in a Leave-One-Subject-Out approach, achieving an accuracy of 97%. Finally, we validated the pipeline in … that the pipeline captured disease progression in all mice. While our pipeline generalizes well to data from other laboratories, it is sensitive to artifacts, which
05317|Trait-Based Modeling of Multi-Host Pathogen Transmission: Plant-Pollinator Networks
   > model to pollinators and pathogens, its framework is general and can be transferred to any kind of species interactions in any community.
05318|Progressive Transfer Learning Approach for Identifying the Leaf Type by Optimizing Network Parameters
   > [no abstract]
05319|The pace of past climate change vs. potential bird distributions and land use in the United States
   > [no abstract]
05320|ReTSoSPA: IoT-based Real Time Soil Sensing for Precision Agriculture
   > demand. But all these factors might vary based on soil health of different locations, nutrient levels after each crop cycle, weather conditions, change in temperature
05321|Trustworthy Automatic Target Recognition via Variational Autoencoder-based Out-Of-Distribution Detection
   > the public Marine-Debris dataset show a clear separation between In-Distribution (ID) and Out-of-Distribution (OOD) loss densities thanks to our add-on, mirrored by the score reported
05322|Microscope-based computer vision to characterize soil texture and soil organic matter.
   > [no abstract]
05323|Selective sweeps linked to colonization of novel habitats and climatic changes in a wild tomato species.
   > with the demographic history, allele frequencies, the age of selection events, and distribution shifts. Several selective sweeps occur at regulatory networks involved in root hair
05324|Diversified cropping systems benefit soil carbon and nitrogen stocks by increasing aggregate stability: Results of three fractionation methods.
   > subsoil due to N2 fixation by soybean. The C and N stocks decreased by 22% and 12% under fallow compared to wheat/maize in the topsoil. … soil aggregation when estimated by dry and optimal-moisture fractionations. The aggregate size distribution shifted from the dominance of large (>2 mm) toward small macroaggregates (0.25-2
05325|Rethinking Reconstruction Autoencoder-Based Out-of-Distribution Detection
   > In some scenarios, classifier requires detecting out-of-distribution samples far from its training data. With desirable characteristics, reconstruction autoencoder-based methods
05326|Ecological specialization promotes diversity and diversification in the East Mediterranean genus Ricotia (Brassicaceae)
   > [no term] Despite its amazing biodiversity, the Eastern Mediterranean remains a highly understudied region especially when compared to the Western Mediterranean. Scarcity of such studies restrict our understanding of the processes shaping
05327|A Condition-Aware Shading Domain-Adaptive Framework for Robust Chlorophyll Inversion Across Shade Managements in Hopea hainanensis
   > widely adopted in cultivation and understory regeneration, alters plant light environments, thereby degrading the trait inversion performance and posing a key challenge in plant phenotyping. … chlorophyll retrieval of Hopea hainanensis under shade management as an illumination-regime-dependent conditional domain shift problem, and developed a condition-aware domain adaptation framework (CAI-DAI) t
05328|Assessing the bird guild patterns in heterogeneous land use types around Jammu, Jammu and Kashmir, India
   > Himalayas has caused the conversion of natural habitat into human-modified habitats, thus degrading ecosystem health. Adaptation of birds to changing physical environment can be well … of 208 bird species (about 15% of country’s avifauna) recorded from six different sites during 1 year survey. Unweighted pair-group average cluster analysis performed on
05329|Enhancing field-based tea disease detection via generative diffusion priors with semantic consistency and task-specific YOLOv26 adaptation
   > Detecting tea diseases in natural fields is challenging due to the significant domain shift between laboratory and real-world datasets. We propose the Inpainting-Based Composite Data
05330|Delineation of Efficient Cropping Zone for Sugarcane over the Southern Indian States
   > sugarcane had widespread area, the productivity is very less. In a few other regions, the productivity is very high but acreage under sugarcane is low.
05331|Modelling the Water & Solute Transit Time Distributions in a Groundwater System
   > [no term]  <p>Groundwater transport of legacy contaminants (e.g., excess nutrients in agricultural watersheds) into streams and rivers is a likely contributor to the lag in surface water quality improvement. This lag
05332|A Comparative Study on Unsupervised Domain Adaptation for Coffee Crop Mapping
   > [no abstract]
05333|From Wrist to Heart: Clinical Validation and Real-World Translation of Wearable & Portable AI-enhanced ECG
   > and portable devices introduces additional challenges related to device-specific signal acquisition, preprocessing, domain shift, and user-led recording. Evidence is most mature for atrial fibrillation detection,
05334|Cortex-Grounded Diffusion Models for Brain Image Generation
   > mitigate critical limitations of real-world datasets, including the scarcity of rare phenotypes, domain shifts across scanners, and insufficient longitudinal coverage. However, existing generative models largely
05335|Radiomics: Current Applications and Future Directions
   > it has been widely explored in various solid tumors, yet its pan‐cancer generalization, biological interpretability, and clinical translation still face prominent bottlenecks. Cancer remains the … cancers. We also discuss multi‐omics integration, biological interpretability, and translational bottlenecks including domain shift and reproducibility crisis. Finally, we prospect cutting‐edge direction
05336|Using Sentinel-1 and Sentinel-2 Time Series for Slangbos Encroachment Mapping in the Free State Province, South Africa
   > overgrazing in semi-arid ecosystems are known to be major factors driving land degradation. During the last decades woody cover encroachment has increased over large areas
05337|Moving Uphill: Microbial Facilitation at the Leading Edge of Plant Species Distributional Shifts
   > [no abstract]
05338|A Statistical Methodology for Evaluating the Potential for Poleward Expansion of Warm Temperate and Subtropical Plants Under Climate Change: A Case St
   > [no term] Many studies have examined how species are shifting their ranges poleward in response to climate change, using statistical approaches such as graphical analyses, t-tests, correlation analyses, and circular data methods.
05339|Causal Mechanism Transfer Network for Time Series Domain Adaptation in Mechanical Systems
   > massive labels, mostly contributed by human engineers at a high cost. Fortunately, domain adaptation enhances the model generalization by utilizing the labeled source data and the unlabeled target data. However, the mainstream domain adaptation methods cannot achieve ideal performance on time series data, since they … invariant and present our Causal Mechanism Transfer Network (CMTN) for time seri
05340|Shifting alpine plant distributions with global change: Testing the environmental matching hypothesis
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Species facing novel temperature, precipitation, and nitrogen (N) deposition regimes must move or adapt to persist. For long-lived plants, a primary form of climate acclimation is through shifting geographic
05341|Cross-Domain Leaf Counting with Minimizing Feature Distances
   > paper, a leaf counting method to minimize the feature distance between the source domain dataset and the target dataset is proposed. After training on the source domain dataset, the counting task can be completed directly on the target dataset. The improved Style-Transfer network module transfer source data to the target domain data, so that the features of the source dataset are close to the feat
05342|Colorado 80521 H H : 0 : Moist ure Stres ses in Arizona Mixed Conifer Seedlings
   > [no abstract]
05343|Significant but partial lipoprotein lipase functional loss caused by a novel occurrence of rare LPL biallelic variants
   > [no term] Background Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) plays a crucial role in triglyceride hydrolysis. Rare biallelic variants in the LPL gene leading to complete or near-complete loss of function cause autosomal recessive familial
05344|Multibranch Unsupervised Domain Adaptation Network for Cross Multidomain Orchard Area Segmentation
   > Although unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) has been extensively studied in remote sensing image segmentation tasks, most UDA models are designed based on single-target domain settings. Large-scale remote sensing images often have multiple target domains in practical applications, and the simple extension of single-target UDA models to multiple target domains is unstable and costly. Multi-target
05345|Impacts of anthropogenic climate change on tropical montane forests: an appraisal of the evidence
   > [no term] In spite of their small global area and restricted distributions, tropical montane forests (TMFs) are biodiversity hotspots and important ecosystem services providers, but are also highly vulnerable to climate change.
05346|MODELING OF GROUNDWATER SYSTEMS IN A WETLAND: A CASE STUDY OF THE AAMSVEEN, THE NETHERLANDS
   > [no abstract]
05347|Conservation, acquisition, and functional impact of sex-biased gene expression in mammals
   > [no term] The genetics of sexual dimorphism In mammals, many species exhibit sex-specific phenotypes that differ between males and females. Although attention has been directed to the effects of the X and
05348|European beewolf (Philanthus triangulum) will expand its geographic range as a result of climate warming
   > affecting the potential distribution of the European beewolf. We predicted the potential distribution shifts within two scenarios (optimistic RPC4.5 and pessimistic RCP8.5) and three Global
05349|Species diversity and molecular characterization of Alternaria section Alternaria isolates collected mainly from cereal crops in Canada
   > isolation (i.e., Canadian isolates did not form distinct clades when compared to other regions). Our expanded sampling of A. arborescens has greatly increased the known
05350|A fast and robust method for plant count in sunflower and maize at different seedling stages using high-resolution UAV RGB imagery
   > [no abstract]
05351|Elephant Detection System Using AI
   > [no term] Elephant Detection System Using AI is a comprehensive, multi-stakeholder platform designed to detect and manage wild elephant intrusions using camera-based surveillance. Utilizing advanced detection algorithms and real-time image recognition, the
05352|Image augmentation by a vision-language foundation model for durian leaf disease recognition
   > [no abstract]
05353|Dayam: A Vision-Based AI Framework for Real-Time Vegan Diet Compliance and Sustainable Alternative
   > [no term] The global transition toward plant-based diets is hindered by the cognitive burden of ingredient verification and the scarcityof actionable nutritional guidance for non-vegan food substitution. This study presents Dayam, a
05354|36 Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma Consensus Transcriptomic Programs Reveal Converging Trajectories Towards Aggressive Disease
   > recurrent non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) factors, termed consensus transcriptomic programs (CTPs), across independent ccRCC bulk RNA-seq datasets and across a range of factorization dimensionalities. CTP … individual tumors was scored against a gene-wise permuted null distribution to enable cross-dataset comparison and statistical testing. The workflow was applied to three ccRCC datasets
05355|Changes in the composition of humic acids in various upland field soils with a continuous application of an organic amendment as revealed by fractiona
   > [no abstract]
05356|Integration of Computer Vision and Physicochemical Parameters for Post-Harvest Ripeness Classification of TomEJC Mango
   > computer vision and physicochemical parameters for preliminary multi-class ripeness classification under non-uniform real-world conditions. The ripening trends were reflected in increasing TSS and pH values
05357|Processing citizen science- and machine-annotated time-lapse imagery for biologically meaningful metrics
   > [no term] Time-lapse cameras facilitate remote and high-resolution monitoring of wild animal and plant communities, but the image data produced require further processing to be useful. Here we publish pipelines to process
05358|Exploring the Long-Term Soil Moisture Predictability with FLUXNET Site Data using Circulating Learning Model
   > different hyper-parameters in our model, different predictive models, different climate regions and different sites) has been widely discussed in this paper. The code of our
05359|Comparative characteristics of the faunal complexes of Orthoptera (Insecta: Orthoptera) in the steppe and forest-steppe zones of the Right Bank of the
   > [no term] The data on the collection of Orthoptera (Insecta: Orthoptera) for 2024–2025 in various biotopes from two protected areas of the Saratov region – Khvalynsky National Park and Nizhne-Bannovsky Natural Monument,
05360|A Shiitake Mushroom Fruiting Body Detection Method Based on Multi-Modal Feature Fusion
   > network (LMFD) based on YOLOv11. First, a dual-backbone architecture is constructed to independently extract color and spatial features, effectively mitigating feature interference caused by discrepancies … Convolution (C3k2P) is designed by replacing standard convolutions with partial convolutions, significantly decreasing the number of parameters and computational complexity. Furthermore, a Cros
05361|Stacking Network Fusing Slag Knowledge and Meta-Learner Decision for Predicting Quality of Converter Steelmaking Process With Sparse Samples
   > training dataset for alleviating the overfitting problem while avoiding data leaking and distribution shifts. The cumulative contribution rate of SHAP is used to screen out
05362|Microencapsulated Pomegranate Reverts High-Density Lipoprotein (HDL)-Induced Endothelial Dysfunction and Reduces Postprandial Triglyceridemia in Women
   > After supplementation with MiPo, the incremental area under the curve of triglycerides decreased to half of the initial values. The HDL distribution shifted from large HDL to intermediate and small-size particles during the postprandial
05363|Student Research Abstract: Dynamic Adversarial Soil Modeling: A GAN-Confident Learning Approach for Precision Agriculture
   > module for holistic ecosystem modeling. The system employs transfer learning for efficient cross-domain adaptation and outputs probabilistic soil state distributions, enabling risk-aware decision-making. Compared to
05364|AGRO-GENECOLOGICAL APPROACHES TO THE VARIETY DIFFERENTIATION IN SOYBEA 1 ' \ JS , Glycine 1 nax ( L )
   > [no abstract]
05365|Ecological status and the spread of false brome in the Andrews Forest, Western Oregon, USA
   > [no abstract]
05366|Prediction of groundwater fluctuations in Chengalpattu district through machine learning
   > study focuses on predicting variations in groundwater levels in open wells at different locations in the Chengalpattu district, assessing the effectiveness of various machine-learning models.
05367|PARTONOMY: Large Multimodal Models with Part-Level Visual Understanding
   > shortcomings: they use special [SEG] tokens not seen during pretraining which induce distribution shift, and they discard predicted segmentations instead of using past predictions to … on our proposed Explanatory Part Segmentation task is competitive with segmenting LMMs trained on significantly more segmentation data. Our work opens up new avenues towards
05368|Diversity of wild edible plants of Guinea-Bissau (West Africa): traditional uses and trade
   > [no term] Wild edible plants (WEPs) are among the most important non-timber forest products harvested because of their contribution for food security of local populations and generation of income for families. To
05369|Optimization of Rainfall Prediction Using Satellite Data Through Machine Learning and Deep Learning Algorithms
   > boosting algorithm (XG Boost) and Logistic Regression (LR) for predicting rainfall in different regions of India using satellite data and comparing results with the deep
05370|SPECIALLY PROTECTED NATURAL AREAS IN THE CONTEXT OF URBAN PLANNING OF PERM: FUNCTIONS AND ISSUES
   > [no term] This article is a study using GIS technologies aimed at assessing and analyzing changes in the areas of types of plant communities under the influence of oil and gas industry
05371|Integrating DISPATCH and In-Situ Constraints into a 1D-ResUNet for SMAP Soil Moisture Downscaling
   > constraints during network optimization, significantly mitigating prediction bias. Furthermore, a 32-km block-based spatial cross-validation strategy, stratified by NDVI, is implemented to rigorously evaluate model transferability and prevent the overestimation of performance often caused by spatial autocorrelation. Validated
05372|Abstract LB045: Pancancer meta-analysis of the genomic features associated with tandem duplication formation in cancer
   > Using both a discovery and a validation datasets, comprising 3,084 and 4,784 independent cancer genomes, respectively, we found that cyclin-related TD breakpoints, from small (∼10
05373|External Benchmarking of Lung Ultrasound Models for Pneumothorax-Related Signs: A Manifest-Based Multi-Source Study
   >  Reproducible external benchmarks for pneumothorax‐related lung ultrasound (LUS) AI are scarce, and binary lung‐sliding classification may obscure clinically important signs. We therefore developed a manifest‐based external benchmark and used it to test both cross‐domain generalisation and task validity. We curated 280 clips from 190 publicly accessible … Characteristic–Area Under the Curve (ROC‐A
05374|Determination of germination of Mediasia macrophylla Pimen. Seeds in plantation conditions
   > [no term] The population growth in recent years also leads to an increase in demand for medicinal, essential oil, food and honey plants. At this stage, ethnobotanical studies are carried out on
05375|Key analysis of the dairy value chain in Vietnam: the case of Bavi
   > [no term]  Purpose The purpose of this paper is to find out the distribution of benefits, costs, and value added among the actors and problems in the practical management in dairy
05376|A multimodal imaging dataset for quality grading of Canadian wild rice kernels using RGB and VNIR hyperspectral data
   > [no term] This article presents a multimodal dataset of Canadian wild rice (Zizania palustris) kernels, combining high-resolution RGB imagery and visible–near-infrared (VNIR) hyperspectral reflectance data for post-harvest quality characterization. The dataset comprises
05377|Mc-AttnUNet++: A Multiscale Attention Network for Robust Segmentation of Crop Leaf Diseases in Precision Agriculture
   > 99.22 % F1-score, and a 0.94 Dice Coefficient. The model exhibits significant cross-crop robustness, achieving accuracy between 99.10 % and 99.30 %, with an average
05378|Plant pangenomes for crop improvement, biodiversity and evolution
   > [no term] Plant genome sequences catalogue genes and the genetic elements that regulate their expression. Such inventories further research aims as diverse as mapping the molecular basis of trait diversity in domesticated
05379|Range dynamics mediated by compensatory life stage responses to experimental climate manipulations.
   > [no term] The expectations of polar or upslope distributional shifts of species ranges in response to warming climate conditions have been recently questioned. Diverse responses of different life stages to changing temperature
05380|SAPT: Saliency Augmentation and Unsupervised Pre-trained Model Fusion for Few-Shot Object Detection
   > [no abstract]
05381|Identification of transcription factors involved in the phenotype of a domesticated oleaginous microalgae strain of Tisochrysis lutea
   > [no term] Abstract Microalgae are an outstanding source of high value products with applications in food, feed or biofuel production. Among these promising organisms, the haptophyte Tisochrysis lutea is commonly used as
05382|Aerial and Optical Images-Based Plant Species Segmentation Using Enhancing Nested Downsampling Features
   > Plant species, structural combination, and spatial distribution in different regions should be adapted to local conditions, and the reasonable arrangement can
05383|A Markovian Approach towards Bacterial Size Control and Homeostasis in Anomalous Growth Processes
   > [no term] Regardless of the progress achieved during recent years, the mechanisms coupling growth and division to attain cell size homeostasis in bacterial populations are still not well understood. In particular, there
05384|Mitigating Domain Drift in Multi Species Segmentation with DINOv2: A Cross-Domain Evaluation in Herbicide Research Trials
   > variation across seasons, geographies, devices, and sensing modalities. Most deep learning approaches trained on controlled datasets fail to generalize under these domain shifts, limiting their suitability for operational phenotyping pipelines. This study evaluates a … (2018-2020), comprising 14 plant species and 4 herbicide damage classes, and assess generalization under increasingly challenging 
05385|LAViTSPose: A Lightweight Cascaded Framework for Robust Sitting Posture Recognition via Detection– Segmentation–Classification
   > training commonplace, leaving models insufficiently robust to misalignment perturbations and thereby limiting cross-domain generalization. To address these challenges, we propose LAViTSPose, a lightweight cascaded framework for
05386|Inherited differences of migratory phenotypes in two Acrocephalus warblers in relation to geomagnetic field parameters
   > [no abstract]
05387|Folkbotanical classification: morphological, ecological and utilitarian characterization of plants in the Napf region, Switzerland
   > linked for certain plant groups, which results in always the same groups, independent from the different sorting criteria. Sensory perception allows for a broader explanation
05388|Research on a Lightweight Wheat Ear Detection Algorithm Based on GCB-YOLOv5nu
   > 1.82M, achieving a favorable balance between accuracy and efficiency. Ablation studies and cross-dataset tests further validate the effectiveness of each module and the strong robustness
05389|Abstract PS3-06-22: Artificial Intelligence Predicts OncotypeDX Recurrence Scores Directly from H&E-Stained Whole Slide Images of ER+/HER2- Node-Negat
   > whole-slide images (WSIs) of surgically resected ER+/HER2- node-negative invasive breast tumors and externally validated its performance using retrospective real-world clinical cases. We developed our model … associate ODX scores to morphological features, thus generating a slide-level prediction. For external validation, we used WSIs of an independent cohort of 300 early stage ER+/HER2- node-nega
05390|The diversity of wild edible plants used by community living around Mount Merapi National Park, Central Java, Indonesia
   > [no term] Abstract. Farikha KN, Syahrani LPW, Alfiyah LK, Luthfia, Nurwulandari M, Nazar IA, Junaedi E, Setyawan AD. 2024. The diversity of wild edible plants used by community living around Mount Merapi
05391|Use of Genus Cistus in Phytotechnologies: Application in a Closed Mercury Mine
   > [no term] The Almadén mining district is known to be one of the richest mercury areas in the world. Despite the high concentrations of this metal, this territory has well-established vegetation that
05392|Selecting and combining biomarkers by gene expression profiles for colon cancer classification
   > [no abstract]
05393|ACHENY: A standard Chenopodiaceae image dataset for deep learning models
   > contains datasets related to the “Efficient Deep Learning Models for Categorizing Chenopodiaceae in the wild” (Heidary-Sharifabad et al., 2021). There are about 1500 species of … was collected from natural habitats of different bushes of Chenopodiaceae species, in real-world conditions from desert and semi-desert areas of the Yazd province of IRAN.
05394|Characterizing the Effectiveness of DINOv2 as an Off-the-Shelf Foundation Model for Earth Monitoring Tasks: Preliminary Results
   > the often limited ground truth labels (e.g., many tasks require field surveys), cross-region variability, and different sensor characteristics. Recent progress in industrial general-purpose vision foundation … that the end goal of the general-purpose VFMs is to reach zero-shot generalizability to broad tasks like in the language domain. In this work, we
05395|Morphological and Molecular Characterization of Gnetum africanum (Welw.) Germplasm Using DNA Barcoding Method
   > Three different land races or accessions of Gnetum africanum was collected from different locations in Nigeria. High quality genomic DNA was isolated from the different
05396|The use of a functional approach as surrogate of Collembola species richness in European perennial crops and forests
   > [no abstract]
05397|A peptidomics-based investigation of the synergistic effects of neutral and Alcalase proteases on release of antioxidant peptides from soybean protein
   > amino acid composition and MW distribution was observed, but the peptide length distribution shifted evidently towards dipeptides (57.07 % with simultaneous enzyme use, compared to
05398|Patterns of Bird-Bacteria Associations
   > [no term] AbstractBirds, with their broad geographic ranges and close association with humans, have historically played an important role as carriers of human disease and as reservoirs for drug-resistant bacteria. Here, we
05399|Cattle grow taller: Implications of outdated ordinal scores for genetic evaluations and selection?
   > biological measurements and categorical scores may become outdated. This article examines phenotypic distribution shifts and their impacts on genetic evaluations and selection outcomes in an
05400|Deep Learning–based Disease Detection in Grape Leaves and Pomegranate Fruits using CNNs: A Comprehensive Survey
   > leaf-level detection of anthracnose, bacterial blight, fruit spots, and rots. Key gaps remain—field-generalization under variable lighting and occlusion, limited annotated pomegranate datasets, robustness to background … longitudinal datasets for disease progression. We conclude with best-practice recommendations (dataset documentation, cross-dataset validation, explainability, and edge-optimizati
05401|Geological, geochemical and oil content characteristics of alkaline lacustrine shale: Fengcheng formation in Mahu Sag, Junggar Basin
   > a certain proportion. The hydrocarbon generation potential index of P 1 f decreases with the transition of kerogen type from I to III, and the OSI value shows a trend of first increasing and then decreasing from Type I to Type II 1 and then to Type III. … exploring and developing strongly heterogeneous alkaline shale oil in Mahu Sag and other regions in the world. 
05402|Trends and Risk Factors of Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli Infections in Gyeonggi Province, 2019–August 2025
   > yukhoe, being particularly prominent among cases in 2025. In addition, the serogroup distribution shifted from O157 dominance toward an increased prevalence of non-O157 serogroups, particularly
05403|A multi-source domain feature adaptation network for potato disease recognition in field environment
   > address the issue of low recognition accuracy caused by the mismatch between target domain and source domain due to insufficient samples, the effectiveness of Multi-Source Unsupervised Domain Adaptation (MUDA) method in disease identification is explored. A Multi-Source Domain Feature Adaptation Network (MDFAN) is proposed, employing a two-stage alignment strategy. This method first aligns the dis
05404|Protein abundances can distinguish between naturally-occurring and laboratory strains of Yersinia pestis, the causative agent of plague
   > to discover signatures for laboratory facility and culture medium that are largely independent of the signature of laboratory adaptation. Going beyond our previous laboratory evolution
05405|OCRE project: consortium, main goals, approaches and opportunities
   > OCRE project, which is devoted to expand existing crop monitoring methodology to new regions of Ukraine and assess war damages based on EO data using
05406|YOLOv10n-Based Peanut Leaf Spot Detection Model via Multi-Dimensional Feature Enhancement and Geometry-Aware Loss
   > safeguarding oilseed supplies and reducing pesticide reliance. However, general-purpose detectors face severe domain adaptation bottlenecks in unstructured field environments due to small feature dissipation, physical
05407|HGG-21. GERMLINE MUTATIONS IN MSH2 GENE IN PEDIATRIC PATIENTS WITH CONGENITAL AND SPORADIC GLIOBLASTOMA HIGH-GRADE GLIOMA WITH A NOVEL FUSION GENE OF 
   > [no abstract]
05408|Using Ecological Modelling Tools to Inform Policy Makers of Potential Changes in Crop Distribution: An Example with Cacao Crops in Latin America
   > [no abstract]
05409|Real Time Detection of Predators near the Domestic Animal’s Shelter Based on the Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Internet of Things (IoT)
   > [no term] India is an agricultural country where farmers grow various types of crops on their agricultural lands using organic fertilizers. These fertilizers are provided by farm animals such as cows, bulls,
05410|Forecasting O3 and NO2 concentrations with spatiotemporally continuous coverage in southeastern China using a Machine learning approach.
   > China for up to five days in advance. Both overall validation and spatial cross-validation revealed that our forecast framework significantly surpassed the initial GEOS-CF model
05411|Few-Shot Cross-Domain Object Detection With Instance-Level Prototype-Based Meta-Learning
   > object detection, it is assumed that extensive unlabeled training data from the target domain can be easily obtained. However, in some access-constrained scenarios, massive target … under the supervised few-shot scenario in this work. To compensate for the target domain data deficiency, we fuse cropped instances from labeled images in both
05412|AReview of RT-DETR-based Object Detection
   > future research directions, such as robustness in complex environments, multimodal fusion, and cross-domain generalization. This survey serves to contextualize RT-DETR's role in the evolving landscape of
05413|Assessing Serra da Estrela PDO cheeses’ origin-production date using fatty acids profiles
   > [no abstract]
05414|Millars Hydraulic Architecture (Almassora, Spain)
   > [no term] The Millars River feeds the fields of the four traditionally agricultural cities near its mouth: Burriana, Vila-real, Almassora and Castellón. To carry out the distribution of the waters corresponding to
05415|Gripperpose: A Novel Approach for Large Industrial Grippers 5D Pose Estimation
   > rarely applied in such environments, and directly transferring them often leads to domain adaptation issues due to complex backgrounds and the limited availability of depth
05416|Research on Cross-Regional Crop Pest and Disease Collaborative Diagnosis Based on Federated Knowledge Graphs: An AI Reasoning Mechanism Integrating Mu
   > To accomplish intelligent co-diagnosis of cross-regional crop pests and diseases, as well as facilitate knowledge sharing and reasoning … feature fusion and neural-symbolic hybrid reasoning enable improvement of model interpretability and cross-region diagnosis capability. Experiments have proven that this diagnosis model has better accuracy,
05417|Indigenous biosystematics of yams (Dioscorea spp.) in Southwest Ethiopia: folk taxonomy, ethnolinguistic analysis, and folk descriptors
   > [no term] Background In Southwest Ethiopia, various plant species are coexisting in wild and cultivated forms. This provides an ideal setting for studying folk biosystematics of neglected species. One of such species
05418|On the Evaluation and Real-World Usage Scenarios of Deep Vessel Segmentation for Funduscopy
   > [no abstract]
05419|Quantifying the Environmental Impact of Model Quantization: A Cross-Crop Carbon Footprint Analysis for Sustainable Agriculture
   > reduction in model size (11.01 MB to 2.74 MB) and a 14.7% decrease in inference carbon emissions (0.111 g to 0.095 g CO2 per validation run), while maintaining an accuracy of 97.68%. Conversely, cross-crop experiments on the tomato dataset revealed significant hardware-specific bottlenecks, where quantization inadvertently
05420|Detection of Tea Leaf Diseases Using Deep Transfer Learning
   > deep transfer learning to train classification models efficiently with limited samples, leveraging cross-domain knowledge transfer. Our method aims to detect tea leaf diseases early, thereby
05421|Processing-bias correction with DEBIAS-M improves cross-study generalization of microbiome-based prediction models
   > identification of signals that are reproducible across studies and the development of generalizable and biologically interpretable prediction models. “Batch-correction” methods have been used to alleviate … zeros. Altogether, processing bias currently compromises our ability to glean robust and generalizable biological insights from microbiome data. Here, we present DEBIAS-M (Domain adaptation wit
05422|Semantic-Aware Contrastive Adaptation Bridges Domain Discrepancy for Unsupervised Remote Sensing
   > environmental monitoring to urban planning. However, the scarcity of labeled data in target domains often impedes the generalization of models trained on source domains. To address this challenge, we propose Semantic-Aware Contrastive Adaptation (SACA), a … then expands the sample scope by incorporating statistical information from the labeled source domain. This approach enables the embedding spa
05423|Visual recognition system of crop diseases based on intelligent machine learning
   > path on the basis of ECA, and fuses the channel information of different regions to obtain the EDCA attention mechanism, which makes the model have … activation function of the original model to enhance the recognition performance and generalization ability of the network model. Compared with the classical convolutional neural network, this model has better recognition effect, smaller model weight
05424|Potential distributional changes of invasive crop pest species associated with global climate change
   > [no abstract]
05425|Изменчивость высоты дуба черешчатого (Quercus robur L.) и клена остролистного (Acer platanoides L.) в полезащитной полосе
   > [no term] The organizing framework of adaptive landscape agriculture is protective afforestation. The study of the shelterbelt state is necessary for detection of their protective height due to the dramatically changing climatic
05426|TRPC2: A Pheromonal Funnel Into Same-Sex Sexual Behavior
   > [no abstract]
05427|Facial Emotion Recognition Based on Optimized Xception Training
   > garnered from vast and diverse datasets, thus enabling a more robust and generalized feature representation for the task at hand. Furthermore, to augment the model’s … overfitting. The data augmentation process aims to simulate a broader range of real-world conditions and expressions, thereby improving the model’s ability to generalize and perform accurately across various emotional states. In the
05428|Artificial Intelligence Driven Animal Detection for Sustainable Farming
   > many global challenges such as climate change. labour shortages, water scarcity, soil degradation etc. However, one particular problematic issue is the invasion of farms by
05429|Data from: Trait-dependent distributional shifts in fruiting of common British fungi
   > [no abstract]
05430|Cross-Dataset Generalization in -Based Plant Disease Recognition
   > variations of plant illnesses from photos. To enhance the model’s capacity for generalisation, extensive datasets including various plant species and disease symptoms are gathered and … to prevent overfitting and improve performance on a separate validation set. An independent test data set is used to thoroughly assess the trained CNN in
05431|Pear and apple recognition using deep learning and mobile
   > using open dataset”Fruits-360”. The results are applicable to develop transfer learning and domain adaptation solutions. Meanwhile, decomposition into many simple subtasks can reduce required device
05432|Neural Network Analysis to Predict Factors Affecting Conservation Behavior of Rural Operators of Shadegan Wetland
   > [no abstract]
05433|IAFormer: A Transformer Network for Image Aesthetic Evaluation and Cropping
   > and labeled scores using convolutional neural networks, but the aesthetic features of different regions on images have not been explored sufficiently, when an image is … background information and it is necessary to correlate the aesthetic features of different regions to evaluate the image, convolutional neural networks often cannot extract the
05434|Black ink staining protocol: A cost-effective substitute in quantifying arbuscular mycorrhizal colonization in plant roots.
   > [no term] Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi, ubiquitously distributed across diverse terrestrial ecosystems, establish symbiotic associations with the majority of vascular plants, fulfilling essential physiological and ecological functions. Mycorrhizal development represents the initiation
05435|Smart Electric Fencing for Agriculture Field Protection from Wildlife
   > [no term] Wild animals enter the fields of agriculture and cause severe damage to crops, resulting in tremendous economic loss for farmers. The conventional methods for deterrence include high-voltage electric fencing and
05436|On the Evaluation of Multimodal Large Language Models for Agricultural Image Classification Across Diverse Tasks
   > promise of multimodal models for agricultural image understanding and the need for domain adaptation.
05437|Edge computing in IoT : Preliminary results on modeling and performance analysis
   > [no abstract]
05438|Multimodal Graph-Based Domain Adaptation With Color and Texture Prompts for Plant Image Segmentation
   > This paper proposes a novel domain adaptation network to improve model accuracy in plant disease detection by leveraging … the network facilitates the effective transfer of class distinction capabilities from a source domain rich in data to a target domain with limited data, thereby addressing a key challenge of domain shift and data scarcity in agriculture. This approach incorporates text-image g
05439|MV-Match: Multi-View Matching for Domain-Adaptive Identification of Plant Nutrient Deficiencies
   > of a crop is straightforward. Despite its relevance for practical applications, unsupervised domain adaptation where multiple views are available for the labeled source domain as well as the unlabeled target domain is an unexplored research area. In this work, we thus propose an approach that leverages multiple camera views in the source and target domain for unsupervised domain adaptation. We eva
05440|Dataset for herding and predator detection with the use of robots
   > of their usual predators, wolves. The dataset includes videos of flocks in different locations, with different lighting conditions and different types of sheep. In addition,
05441|Oxidative stress in wild‐derived and cultivated peanut genotypes caused by heat stress at flowering
   > [no term]  Peanut ( Arachis hypogaea L.) is a globally important crop; however, its productivity is increasingly threatened by heat stress, exacerbated by global warming. Developing heat‐tolerant peanuts is crucial for
05442|DeepEarthMY: A Remote Sensing Dataset for Tropical Land-Cover Segmentation
   > classification models often perform poorly in these regions as they are primarily trained on datasets from non-equatorial climates. To address this gap, we introduce DeepEarthMY, … further evaluate the significance of region-specific datasets for land-cover classification, we performed cross-dataset testing on two datasets: DeepEarthMY from the equatorial region and LoveDA from the temperate clima
05443|THE PRODUCTIVITY OF APPLE TREES DEPENDING ON THE STRUCTURE OF THE CROWN AND THE BIOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE CULTIVAR
   > [no term] This paper presents the results of a study carried out on new apple cultivars, namely ‘Granny Smith’, ‘Gala Buckeye Simmons’, ‘Golden Delicious Reinders’, ‘Red Velox’ and ‘Fuji Kiku’, grafted on
05444|MimicGAN: Robust Projection onto Image Manifolds with Corruption Mimicking
   > amount. Such corruptions are common in the real world, for example images in the wild come with unknown crops, rotations, missing pixels, or other kinds … show that our approach produces state-of-the-art performance in several GAN-based applications—anomaly detection, domain adaptation, and adversarial defense, that benefit from an accurate projection.
05445|Climate change, range shifts, and the disruption of a pollinator-plant complex
   > ecological processes that result from species interactions. There is concern that such distribution shifts will affect animal-plant pollination networks. We modelled the potential future (2050
05446|Deep Diversification and Long-Term Persistence in The South American â•ŸDry Diagonaâ•Ž: Integrating Continent-Wide Phylogeography And Distribution
   > [no abstract]
05447|Prediction of Crop Cultivation
   > conditions. Weather, pests, and harvest operation may be kept as reference for future years. Currently software can augment traditional knowledge. Keeping accurate data is an
05448|CSO-YOLO: A Cross-Species Occlusion-Aware Object Detection Framework for Soybean–Maize Strip Intercropping Fields
   > monitoring, yield estimation, and intelligent agricultural machinery. However, natural field images contain cross-crop occlusion, complex backgrounds, and large differences in target scale and shape, which … joint detection challenging. To address these problems, this paper proposes CSO-YOLO, a cross-species occlusion-aware object detection framework. The framework enhances discriminative target-r
05449|VitiForge: a new procedural pipeline approach for grapevine disease identification under data scarcity
   > diseases is critical for reducing yield losses and ensuring sustainable viticulture. CNNs trained on benchmark datasets such as PlantVillage often achieve near-perfect accuracy, yet this … of procedural and GAN-based synthetic data: VitiForge offers flexibility and scalability under cross-domain and data-scarce conditions, while GANs enhance realism and variability when ample data exists. Together
05450|Strategi Pengembangan Pasar Domestik Pertanian dalam Menghadapi Persaingan Global
   > [no abstract]
05451|GC content variation in angiosperm genomes reveals GC-biased gene conversion.
   > [no abstract]
05452|Montane birds shift downslope despite recent warming in the northern Appalachian Mountains
   > [no abstract]
05453|A Deep Learning Approach to Weed Eradication in Precision Agriculture
   > [no term]  This study develops a deep learning framework for the precise identification of weeds in wheat fields to enable targeted herbicide application. The research evaluates and compares the performance of
05454|Real-Time Semantic Segmentation in Natural Environments with SAM-assisted Sim-to-Real Domain Transfer
   > demand large amounts of labeled data for training. Inspired by modern Unsupervised Domain Adaptation (UDA) techniques, in this paper, we introduce a two-step training pipeline
05455|Cross-scale detection and cross-crop generalization verification of tomato diseases in complex agricultural environments
   > paradigm, the pre-trained weights of the tomato disease detection model can be transferred to common bean and potato detection tasks. Through domain adaptation layers and adversarial feature decoupling strategies, the domain shift problem is overcome, achieving an average precision of 92.7% on the … breakthroughs in terms of both high-precision detection in complex scenarios and the cross-crop gen
05456|Toward regional hazard risk assessment: a method to geospatially inventory critical coastal infrastructure applied to the Caribbean
   > coastal infrastructure land use and components, for use in risk assessments or other regional analyses. While traditional approaches to geospatial inventorying rely on remote sensing … a pilot study to develop an approach that can be replicated for other regions, this manuscript focuses on the Caribbean. Small islands rely heavily on
05457|Insect Identification in the Wild: The AMI Dataset
   > vision algorithms as an answer for scalable data processing. However, insect monitoring in the wild poses unique challenges that have not yet been addressed within … vision, including the combination of long-tailed data, extremely similar classes, and significant distribution shifts. We provide the first large-scale machine learning benchmarks for fine-grained insect
05458|Towards Adaptive and Safe Human-Robot Collaboration: a Multimodal Ai Framework for Cross-Domain Cobot Integration
   > [no term] This article presents the integration of advanced artificial intelligence algorithms applied to collaborative robots (cobots) in five strategic sectors: underground mining, geriatric medicine, precision agriculture, port logistics, and highprecision manufacturing.
05459|Field-Scale Soil Moisture Estimated From Sentinel-1 SAR Data Using a Knowledge-Guided Deep Learning Approach
   > total backscatter, together with Landsat-resolution vegetation information and surface characteristics. A four-fold spatial cross-validation was performed against in-situ SM data to assess the model performance.
05460|instaGraminoid, a Novel Colorimetric Method to Assess Herbicide Resistance, Identifies Patterns of Cross-Resistance in Annual Ryegrass
   > resistance. We were able to reliably characterise resistance to four herbicides with different sites of action (glyphosate, sulfometuron, terbuthylazine, and trifluralin) in two L. rigidum … of the method across populations and herbicide treatments showed high repeatability and transferability. Significant positive correlations in resistance of individual plants were observed across herbicides,
05461|Morphometrics of waterlogged archaeological seeds give new insights into the domestication and spread of Papaver somniferum L. in Western Europe
   > [no term] Domesticated opium poppy Papaver somniferum L. subsp. somniferum probably originated in the Western Mediterranean from its possible wild progenitor, Papaver somniferum L. subsp. setigerum and spread to other European regions.
05462|An Input-Frugal Deep Learning Framework for Weather-Driven National Crop-Yield Forecasting: A Case Study of Brazilian Soybean
   > many approaches rely on costly or hard-to-scale inputs. We present a frugal, transferable, and architecture-agnostic deep learning framework that uses routine weather as the only … identical data requirements. Using a 20-season Brazilian soybean case study (2001/02-2020/21) with leave-one-year-out cross-validation, we benchmark MLP, CNN, LSTM, CNN-LSTM, a Transformer encoder and the
05463|ML and IoT-Based Agricultural Monitoring and Control System
   > [no term] Accurate forecasting of weather and soil parameters and providing real time updates to farmers can help in managing resources and mitigating crop losses. Machine learning models and IoT enabled smart
05464|Relationships between ecological niche and expected shifts in elevation and latitude due to climate change in South American temperate forest plants
   > [no term] Niche properties, such as breadth and position along environmental gradients, are hypothesized to determine plant responses to climate change. We explored the properties of different plant niches in a biodiversity
05465|[Elucidating the Spatial Differentiation of Soil Organic Matter and Influencing Factors within the Yihe River Basin].
   > [no abstract]
05466|Improving Operational SAR-based Flood Mapping in Arid Regions
   > a vital part of flood monitoring applications, since they provide unobscured observations independent of illumination or weather conditions. As water surfaces are physically smoother than … sensitivity analysis showed that different low backscatter frequency thresholds work better in different regions, and thus, a fuzzy flood plausibility layer (FPL) is proposed as
05467|Phylogenetic classification of ethnobotanical plants used by the tribes of Nilambur forest, Malappuram district, Kerala, India
   > [no abstract]
05468|Outlier Exposure for Open Set Crop Recognition From Multitemporal Image Sequences
   > both of these causes, so that the model can be more robust in the wild. This work adapts the framework of outlier exposure (OE) for
05469|Domain Adaptation for Fault Detection in Civil Nuclear Plants
   > Recent domain adaptation approaches have been shown to generalise well between distant data domains achieving high performance in machine fault detection … that the algorithm need not be exposed to fault data from the target domain during training. This promotes the application of these methods to environments
05470|Abstract 6086: Clonal biallelic inactivation of NF2 is an evolutionary bottleneck that exposes a vulnerability to CDK7 inhibition in mesothelioma
   > [no term]  Background: Mesothelioma, a cancer caused by asbestos is lethal and lacks molecularly targeted therapy. The tumor suppressor NF2 constitutes a frequent, positively selected somatic alteration warranting synthetic lethal approaches
05471|Causal Modeling of Soil Processes for Improved Generalization
   > litany of work in soil organic carbon estimation, current approaches do not generalize well across soil conditions and management practices. We empirically show that explicit modeling of cause-and-effect relationships among the soil processes improves the out-of-distribution generalizability of prediction models. We provide a comparative analysis of soil organic carbon
05472|Spatio-temporal variations of AMSR-E Soil Moisture in Shanxi Province, China
   > [no abstract]
05473|Identification of physiological race of wheat stem rust (Puccinia graminis f.sp.tritici) and reaction of bread wheat cultivars to emerging dominant ra
   > [no abstract]
05474|Fungal infection in plant leaves-A Review
   > [no term] The primary resource of a country is agriculture and crop production. The economic development of the country also resides on the agricultural products which ultimately determines the growth of the
05475|Characterization of mutations causing steroid 21-hydroxylase deficiency in Brazilian and Portuguese populations
   > [no term] Deficiency of Cytochrome P450 Steroid 21-hydroxylase (CYP21A2) represents 90% of cases in congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH), an autosomal recessive disease caused by defects in cortisol biosynthesis. Computational prediction along with
05476|OD-ViTFScL: Asynchronous Few-Shot Continual Learning for Intelligent Process Monitoring and Fault Diagnosis in Petrochemical Plants
   > Detecting and classifying these faults helps mitigate production losses, improve product quality, decrease environmental concerns, and improve human safety. Conventional static learning, which learns from … inter-sensor relationships. The fused MLP from the temporal and sensor streams learns independent weights for each orthogonal axis. Our framework also uses ODIN, an out-of-distribution techniqu
05477|Plant Leaf Diseases Identification using Convolutional Neural Network with Treatment Handling System
   > [no term] Agriculture is a very crucial industry to Malaysia where it would bring a huge impact on the country’s wealth. All plant species, regardless of cultivated or wild, are prone to
05478|SBCL-Net: Discrepancy-Guided Semantic–Boundary Interaction for Robust Agricultural Parcel Delineation From Remote Sensing Imagery
   > framework consists of a semantic stream for region-level parcel representation and an independent boundary stream for structure-sensitive contour perception. To enhance semantic–boundary coupling, a Discrepancy-Guided … on FHAPD-JS and FHAPD-XJ, respectively, 71.49% on FTW-France, and 74.06% on AI4Boundaries. Cross-region evaluations further demonstrate the robustness of SBCL-Net under both within
05479|The Current State of Development of Agricultural Cooperatives in the Aktobe Region
   > in the study. The experience of Aktobe region in production compared to other regions was studied in detail, ways to solve economic problems of the
05480|TEA5K: a high-resolution and liquid-phase multiple-SNP array for molecular breeding in tea plant
   > [no term] High-throughput genotyping technology has become an indispensable tool for advancing molecular breeding and genetic research in plants, facilitating large-scale exploration of genomic variation. Genotyping technology based on liquid-phase array utilizes
05481|IoT for Development: Building a Classification Algorithm to Help Beekeepers Detect Honeybee Health Problems Early
   > [no abstract]
05482|Gas chromatographic fingerprint analysis of secondary metabolites of Stachys lanata (Stachys byzantine C. Koch) combined with antioxidant activity mod
   > sought to classify GC fingerprints of twenty-eight S. lanata samples from eight different regions of Iran and more importantly, to correlate fingerprints to the antioxidant
05483|Tomato Ripeness Evaluation and Localization Using Mask R-CNN and DBSCAN Clustering
   > the goal of enabling automated robotic harvesting. The Mask R-CNN model is trained on a small dataset of 62 annotated tomato images captured under challenging real-world conditions. Despite the limited data, the network achieves promising accuracy in classifying
05484|Unsupervised model adaptation for multivariate calibration by domain adaptation-regularization based kernel partial least square.
   > [no term] In chemometrics, calibration model adaptation is desired when training- and test-samples come from different distributions. Domain-invariant feature representation is currently a successful strategy to realize model adaptation and has received
05485|AdaCropFollow: Self-Supervised Online Adaptation for Visual Under-Canopy Navigation
   > growing season. Autonomous navigation under the canopy is challenging due to the degradation in accuracy of RTK-GPS and the large variability in the visual appearance … attributed to the inability of the perception model to adapt to the domain shift encountered during deployment. In this paper, we propose a self-supervised online
05486|Abstracts of Invited Talks
   > [no abstract]
05487|Systematic Study on Different Methods Used for Identification and Classification of Plant Leaves
   > are available in nature. Botanists are research plants to classify plant species in the wild and take their benefits out. There is a lot of
05488|Distribution And Habitat Use Of Four-Horned Antelope ( Chowsingha ) Tetracerus Quadricornis In Kanha National Park , Madhya Pradesh , India
   > [no abstract]
05489|PACT: Phenotype-Aware Contrastive Team Representation for Multi-Phenotype Grouped Ad Hoc Teamwork
   > PACT outperforms state-of-the-art baselines on average, achieving a mean 21.0% gain in out-of-distribution evaluation and a mean 36.5% gain in sample efficiency.
05490|Crop Detection and Maturity Classification Using a YOLOv5-Based Image Analysis
   > and potential environmental impediments. This methodology ensures that the dataset closely replicates real-world conditions encountered by a detection system. Upon testing the model with this
05491|Sustainable Agricultural Development in China: An Empirical Analysis of Temporal and Spatial Evolution, Regional Differences, and Convergence Mechanis
   > from regional fragmentation to a more complex spatial interaction pattern. The overall distribution shifts rightward with evident stage-based differentiation, accompanied by significant positive spatial dependence,
05492|Clinical importance of molecular markers of adult diffuse glioma
   > [no term] In 2016, the WHO incorporated molecular markers, in addition to histology, into the diagnostic classification of central nervous system (CNS) tumours. This improves diagnostic accuracy and prognostication: oligo-astrocytoma no longer
05493|Indigenous Leafy Green Identification Using Deep Learning and Image Processing Techniques
   > zooming, and flipping, thus making it work without any problems in varying real-world conditions such as lighting and positioning. The CNN model is trained with
05494|MS2toImg: A Framework for Direct Bioactivity Prediction from Raw LC-MS/MS Data
   > [no term] Untargeted metabolomics using LC-MS/MS offers the potential to comprehensively profile the chemical diversity of biological samples. However, the process is fundamentally limited by the"identification bottleneck,"where only a small fraction of
05495|A Framework for Autonomous and Sustainable Crop Protection: An Intelligent Multi-Objective Pesticide Application System
   > these propositions is different from existing models in that it showcases scalability, cross-crop applications, and sustainability, thus being a strong solution for the next generation
05496|Ridge-Structure-Based Crop Classification for Small UGV and Derived Detection Framework
   > explicit edge structure input. In the experiments wherein we deliberately introduced a domain shift between the training/validation sets and test set, the proposed method increased … to classify plants. This method acquires ridge structures internally without relying on external sensors or hand-tuned thresholds. Thus, it displays potential for in-field agricultural applications
05497|From Clutter to Clarity: Visual Recognition through Foveated Object-Centric Learning (FocL)
   > [no abstract]
05498|Cross-residual knowledge graph learning for robust multi-trait gene–trait prioritization in rice
   > where each candidate pair represents a graph-supported ranking hypothesis rather than an independent biological validation. We introduce a cross-residual knowledge-graph learning framework that keeps structural … whereas negative-ratio sensitivity shows that MLP becomes unstable when the sampled candidate distribution shifts and Cross + JK variants provide robust information gain in more
05499|Molecular evolution of a reproductive barrier in maize and related species
   > [no term] Three cross-incompatibility loci each control a distinct reproductive barrier in both domesticated maize (Zea mays ssp. mays) and its wild teosinte relatives. These three loci, Teosinte crossing barrier1 (Tcb1), Gametophytic
05500|A Bright Future for Nuclear Endocrinology.
   > patient dosimetry than classical protocols but also enable significantly shorter imaging protocols. Another example of advances based on novel diagnostic targets is the development of
05501|Extending Crop Type Reference Data Using a Phenology-Based Approach
   > maps, any existing, but limited reference data must be spatially extended to other regions using appropriate and available non-ground-based sources. There is the potential to … type reference data from one region [called the training region (TR)] to another region [called the test region (TE)] within the same AEZ using a
05502|Metagenomic analysis of microbial communities in rapid sand filter treating groundwater. Community diversity and metabolic potential
   > [no abstract]
05503|LEAF DISEASE DETECTING USING CNN TECHNIQUE
   > [no abstract]
05504|Cognitive-YOLO: LLM-Driven Architecture Synthesis from First Principles of Data for Object Detection
   > [no term] General-purpose object detection algorithms face a domain-shift bottleneck when deployed in vertical scenarios, and manually customizing a network architecture relies heavily on expert experience with high trial-and-error cost. To address
05505|Climate Change-Based Modeling of Potential Land Use Arrangements for Coffee (Coffea arabica) and Forest in Costa Rica
   > [no abstract]
05506|Internet of Things: A Survey of IoT Applications based on their desirable device characteristics
   > [no abstract]
05507|Imaginary Friends: Ways of Attending to Other, Artificial, or Possible Minds
   > [no abstract]
05508|LMFE: A Novel Method for Predicting Plant LncRNA Based on Multi-Feature Fusion and Ensemble Learning
   > the synthetic minority oversampling technique (SMOTE). LMFE was validated across benchmark datasets, cross-species datasets, unbalanced datasets, and independent datasets. Results: LMFE achieved an accuracy of 99.42%, an F1score of 0.99, and an MCC of 0.98 on the benchmark dataset, with robust cross-species performance (accuracy ranging from 89.30% to 99.81%). On unbalanced datasets, LMFE attained
05509|Critically Evaluating the Consequences of a Single Species Conservation Approach
   > [no abstract]
05510|Performance Analysis of Machine Learning Techniques for Water body Extraction
   > multispectral images of Veeranam Lake which captured by Resourcesat-2 satellite in four different years considered for analysis. Machine learning algorithms like Naive Bayes (NB), Random
05511|Spatiotemporally explicit demographic modelling supports a joint effect of historical barriers to dispersal and contemporary landscape composition on 
   > [no term] Inferring the processes underlying spatial patterns of genomic variation is fundamental to understand how organisms interact with landscape heterogeneity and to identify the factors determining species distributional shifts. Here, we
05512|Self-Supervised Learning for Label-Efficient Wheat Head Detection under Dense and Occluded Field Conditions
   > remains challenging due to small object size, high density, occlusion, and strong cross-domain variability. The Global Wheat Head Detection (GWHD) benchmarks exemplify these difficulties while
05513|Physicochemical properties of some honeys produced from different plants in Morocco
   > honey samples, including types that have never been studied before, produced in different regions in Morocco ( Table 1 , Table 2 ), were analysed
05514|The Catalytic Effect of Rice Husk Ash on Pine Pyrolysis Based on a Three-Component System
   > pathways such as cellulose ring-opening cleavage and hemicellulose deacetylation. Consequently, the product distribution shifts toward lighter compounds, including aldehydes, ketones, and alcohols. This study clarifies
05515|NB-LRR Lineage-Specific Equipment Is Sorted Out by Sequence Pattern Adaptation and Domain Segment Shuffling
   > and other kinds of mutations. Although some mechanisms that govern NB-LRR protein domain adaptations have been uncovered, to retrace the plant-lineage-specific evolution routes of R
05516|Temporal Transfer Learning for Ozone Prediction based on CNN-LSTM Model
   > can affect human health and plant growth. In this paper, we investigated transferred convolutional neural network long short-term memory (TL-CNN-LSTM) model to predict ozone concentration.
05517|Domain adaptation in the space of ontology-grounded concepts for cross-domain classification of biological-object images
   > The paper addresses information-processing efficiency under the domain shift between training and operational input distributions – a limitation typical of … is evaluated on three plant-leaf image corpora (PlantVillage, PlantDoc, PlantWild) in four cross-domain directions. The gain over the baseline is about ten percentage points in
05518|CropHarvest: a global satellite dataset for crop type classiﬁcation
   > [no abstract]
05519|Advances of image processing in Precision Agriculture : Using deep learning convolution neural network for soil nutrient classification
   > [no abstract]
05520|AI-Driven Rice Leaf Disease Detection Leveraging Texture-Feature Fusion and Low-Dimensional Feature Spaces
   > efforts should aim to deploy edges in real-time, add hyperspectral cues, and domain-generalization adaptively to make the model effective in various ecological regimes and rice
05521|Domain Adaptation for Plant Organ Detection with Style Transfer
   > manual counting in field trials. However, model performance is highly sensitive to domain shift between training datasets associated with differences in genotypes, field conditions, and … and laborious, we propose a pipeline of Contrastive Unpaired Translation (CUT) based domain adaptation method to improve detection performance in new datasets, including for completely
05522|MOIR-Net: A Lightweight Crop Disease and Pest Recognition Network Based onMulti-Scale Reparameterization and Energy Attention
   > significantly surpassing state-of-the-art baselines such as MobileViT-v2. Furthermore, the model exhibits superior cross-domain generalization (41.9% Macro-F1 gain) and highly competitive prediction reliability (ECE = 0.0220) through
05523|Participatory Management Process in Natural Resource Management (NRM) by Women Groups
   > [no term] Conserving the natural resources results in improved agricultural productivity which is a key driver for poverty reduction in rural areas. To empower the women and to enhance their socio-economic status
05524|Corals in the city: cultivating ocean life in the Anthropocene
   > are clones, it is hard to determine where one individual starts and another begins – and what death even means in this context, in which
05525|Machine Learning Approach to Identify the Incidence of Human Deaths Due to Human-Elephant Conflicts
   > [no term] Human-Elephant Conflict (HEC) is one of the predominant issues Sri Lanka is coping with, where the North Central Province (NCP) has recorded the highest human deaths due to HEC. However,
05526|Technical Overview of Greenhouse Environment Parameters Forecast Research
   > the development of prediction models, including the establishment of models suitable for different regions, the reduction of unnecessary information through reasonable data preprocessing and feature
05527|Breeding Grounds for Biodiversity Renewing Crop Genetic Resources in an Age of Industrial Food
   > [no abstract]
05528|Cereal yield forecasting combining satellite drought-based indices, regional climate and weather data using machine learning approaches in Morocco
   > forecasting. Also, the proposed methodology can be extended to different crops and different regions for crop yield forecasting.</p>
05529|Immunohistochemistry for p16 and p53 Provides Substantial Agreement With Molecular Tests in Penile Cancer
   > with a relatively poor prognosis. The WHO classifies pSCC into HPV‐associated and HPV‐independent subtypes, with HPV‐positive pSCCs showing slightly better outcomes. A key negative prognostic
05530|Comparing Global Classifications of Water That Applied on Some of AL-Qadissiya Wells Water
   > wells water and classify them according to global classifications. Nineteen wells in different locations have been pointed and assessed during the period between September 2012
05531|Analysing Automated Monitoring of Industrial Water Treatment Plants: From IoT Sensing to Computer Vision Approaches
   > that is, lighting and reflection variation, water clarity, limited annotation availability, and domain shift. While our emphasis is on computer vision, we also acknowledge complementary
05532|Land-Use Changes Largely Determine the Trajectory of Plant Species Distributions Under Climatic Uncertainty in a Mediterranean Landscape
   > the various plant communities in the study area, we identified patterns of distribution shifts at the community level. Our results indicated more pronounced differences between
05533|Microscopic image dataset of fungal spores for computer vision applications in Tectona grandis and other taxa
   > supporting applications such as sample-based analysis, air-based monitoring, and real-time diagnostics. Its cross-species utility and future extensibility enhance its value for plant disease management.
05534|Diverse Data Augmentation with Diffusions for Effective Test-time Prompt Tuning
   > learning adaptive prompts on the fly for each test sample from an unseen new domain, which is known as test-time prompt tuning (TPT). Existing TPT methods typically rely on data augmentation and … similarity to the single test sample. Our experiments on test datasets with distribution shifts and unseen categories demonstrate that DiffTPT improves the zero-shot accuracy by an average of
05535|MORPHOMETRIC IDENTIFICATION OF Calotropis procera (Aiton) Dryand and Jatropha curcas L. IN NORTHERN NIGERIA
   > [no term] Phenetic analysis is a method for comparing plant species to establish their degree of genetic similarity. To identify and classify the enormous variety of plant life, morphological traits are essential.
05536|Improved Crop Disease Detection Across Years Via Adversarial Domain Adaptation Applied to Hyperspectral and Thermal Imagery
   > Remote sensing technologies offer scalable, non-invasive alternatives but are often hindered by domain shifts—variations in environmental or temporal conditions that degrade model performance on new datasets. This study addresses these challenges by employing advanced domain adaptation techniques to detect infected olive trees across consecutive years using airborne … DANN, demonstrating superior 
05537|AquaNet-X: A Deep Hybrid Ensemble Model for Accurate Real-Time Water Quality Index Prediction
   > The novelty of AquaNet-X lies in its meta-layered hybridization strategy, which enables cross-regional adaptability, real-time deployment, and reliable generalization across diverse water sources. It is better way to predict water quality index in different regions based on multivariate features. AquaNet-X is a next-generation tool for intelligent
05538|Identification of the cassava NADP-ME gene family and its response and regulation in photosynthesis
   > [no term] NADP-malic enzyme (NADP-ME) is a crucial enzyme in C4 photosynthesis, responsible for the decarboxylation of malate in bundle sheath cells, enhancing the photosynthetic efficiency of C4 plants. Cultivated cassava exhibits
05539|Classification of Plant Endogenous States Using Machine Learning-Derived Agricultural Indices
   > accuracy greater than those with conventional vegetation indices. Major selected NRIs were independent from leaf water content and chlorophyll content, 2 well-characterized physiological changes under
05540|Patch-wise Inference using Pre-trained Vision Transformers: NEUON Submission to PlantCLEF 2024
   > [no abstract]
05541|The use of Sentinel-1 and -2 data for monitoring maize production in Rwanda
   > from high-resolution multispectral images acquired by unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) in several different locations in Rwanda and labeled as to the crop type by trained
05542|Influence of Weather Conditions in the Northwestern Russian Federation on Flax Fiber Characters According to the Results of a 30-Year Study
   > conditions data also makes possible a comparison of the results obtained in different years. The suggested method of classifying meteorological conditions of a year can
05543|HarvestAI: IoT based Crop Protection and Wild Animal Monitoring
   > [no term] This research project introduces a novel approach to animal detection and repellence in agricultural settings, employing image processing techniques through deep learning algorithms. The system aims to mitigate the damage
05544|Consequences of shifting species distributions.
   > [no abstract]
05545|Irrigation demands aggravate fishing threats to river dolphins in Nepal
   > [no abstract]
05546|Historic disturbance events overruled climatic factors as drivers of ruderal species distributions in the Scandinavian mountains
   > The contemporary interaction of climate and disturbance drives vegetation composition and species distribution shifts, making their respective roles difficult to disentangle. This study describes the
05547|Industrial-scale prediction of cement clinker phases using machine learning
   > reducing material waste and ensuring quality while reducing the associated emissions under real-world conditions. Sheikh Junaid Fayaz and colleagues develop high-fidelity machine learning models that
05548|Classification of Water Quality and Impurity Detection Using Machine Learning
   > the quality of water and prime factors driving the water quality in different regions. It generated an interactive map with dynamic visualisation of impurity hotspots
05549|Robust Classification of Red Chili Plant Leaves Using Smartphone Camera Data and ResNet Model in Noisy Environments
   > and Recall. Collecting data with intentional noise from different leaf types simulates real-world conditions, aiding in the development of a robust classification model. The ResNet
05550|AFCANet for Cross-Domain Plant Disease Recognition with DCT-Guided Adaptive Frequency-Channel Activation
   > problem that plant disease recognition models are susceptible to complex backgrounds, image degradation, and domain shift in real field scenes, this paper proposes a DCT-guided adaptive frequency-domain … AFCANet maintains stable and competitive performance on PlantVillage. In the PlantDoc fine-tuning cross-domain transfer experiment, AFCANet achieved 56.75% accuracy and 56.64% Macro-F1, which wer
05551|Topologically associating domains and the evolution of three‐dimensional genome architecture in rice
   > [no term] SUMMARY We examined the nature and evolution of three‐dimensional (3D) genome conformation, including topologically associating domains (TADs), in five genomes within the genus Oryza. These included three varieties from subspecies
05552|Semantic Segmentation for Robotic Apple Harvesting: A Deep Learning Approach Leveraging U-Net, Synthetic Data, and Domain Adaptation
   > we deploy U-Net, a fully convolutional neural network, emphasizing its adaptability to domain shifts between synthetic and real-world data. By integrating strategies such as domain adaptation, data augmentation, and the inclusion of pre-trained ResNet-50 encoders in the … framework, we demonstrate superior performance in detecting and segmenting apples in diverse real-world conditions compared to 
05553|Vision Foundation Models in Agriculture: Toward Domain-Specific Adaptation for Weed Herbicide Trials Assessment
   > approach on a large, curated agricultural dataset, the model learns rich and transferable representations optimized for herbicide trials images. Our domain-specific model significantly outperforms the … from 0.91 to 0.94) and damage classification (from 0.26 to 0.33). Under unseen conditions (new locations and other time), it achieves even greater gains (species
05554|Data fusion of FTIR and UV–Vis spectra combined with chemometrics to classification garden balsam leaves (Impatiens balsamina L.) extract from two dif
   > [no abstract]
05555|Predicting the potential distribution of four endangered holoparasites and their primary hosts in China under climate change
   > Under future scenarios, their suitable habitats would change to some extent; their distribution shifts fell into two categories: growing type (Boschniakia rossica and Cistanche mongolica)
05556|Gaussian process regression for prediction and confidence analysis of fruit traits by near-infrared spectroscopy
   >  Detection of fruit traits by using near-infrared (NIR) spectroscopy may encounter out-of-distribution (OOD) samples that exceed the generalization ability of a constructed calibration model. Therefore, need confidence analysis for a
05557|Cotton Leaf Disease (CLD) Classification Using Multihead External Attention Vision Transformer
   > and efficient crop management. This research provides an automated method using Multihead External Attention Vision Transformer (MEA-ViT) for CLD classification. This paper proposed an approach … armyworms, curl virus, aphids, and powdery mildew by utilizing visual transformers and external attention techniques. A comprehensive dataset combining two datasets of labeled cotton leaf images was utili
05558|Enhancing visual autonomous navigation in row-based crops with effective synthetic data generation
   > to train deep semantic segmentation networks and enabling robust performance in challenging real-world conditions. An automatic parametric approach enables an easy customization of virtual field
05559|Effects of Al3+ on the microstructure and bioflocculation of anoxic sludge.
   > mg/L/hr, 45% and 79.63°, respectively. The specific surface area of the sludge decreased to 7.084 m2/g and the sludge pore size distribution shifted to concentrate in the mesoporous range. Most of Al3+ was adsorbed
05560|Dual-Modality Anchor-Guided Filtering for Test-time Prompt Tuning
   > Test-Time Prompt Tuning (TPT) adapts vision-language models using augmented views, but its effectiveness … the internal confidence scores of the model, which are often miscalibrated under distribution shift, assigning high confidence to irrelevant crops or background regions while ignoring
05561|Brain-Semantoks: Learning Semantic Tokens of Brain Dynamics with a Self-Distilled Foundation Model
   > we provide comprehensive scaling analyses indicating more unlabeled data reliably results in out-of-distribution performance gains without domain adaptation.
05562|A Multi-Scale Decoupling Strategy for UAV Image Enhancement Vi Dual-Illumination Boosting
   > each scale. This decoupling strategy effectively suppresses halos and artifacts that typically degrade the structural integrity of crop features in single-scale methods. To resolve local
05563|Research on Relationship Between Rural Residents' Income and Electricity Consumption Features
   > rapidly increased these years, there still exists an imbalance between developments in different regions. The income of some rural areas is still significantly below the
05564|Woody cover mapping in the savanna ecosystem of the Kruger National Park using Sentinel-1 C-Band time series data
   > by fitting a random forest (RF) model. Model accuracy was assessed via spatial cross-validation and revealed an overall root mean squared error (RMSE) of 22.8%
05565|Structural, functional, and evolutionary analysis of Cry toxins of Bacillus thuringiensis: an in silico study
   > toxicity for a specific insect order are found to be clustered for another different insect order, which concludes that they might have toxicity for more … to 3 different insect orders. It could be hypothesized that an inner-molecular domain shift or domain insertion/deletion might have taken place during the evolutionary process,
05566|SugarcaneShuffleNet: A Very Fast, Lightweight Convolutional Neural Network for Diagnosis of 15 Sugarcane Leaf Diseases
   > of scalable, efficient, and interpretable tools. Many deep learning models fail to generalize under real-world conditions and require substantial computational resources, limiting their use in resource-constrained regions.
05567|CHANGES OF THE ASPHALTENES STRUCTURAL PARAMETERS UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ULTRASONIC WAVES
   > the dispersion of asphaltene aggregates increases and the maximum of particle size distribution shifts to 1.5 μm. After relaxation of the treated solutions for 1 … molecular weight of asphaltenes obtained by planting a 40-fold excess of hexane decreases from 2716 to 1672 a.e.m. Structural group analysis which is based on
05568|Green Vision: Plant Care Monitoring System
   > the human efforts whenever scientists or doctors are unable to travel to different locations to examine them. This study has developed an Android smartphone application,
05569|Versatile and non-versatile occupational back-support exoskeletons: A comparison in laboratory and field studies
   > [no term] Abstract Assistive strategies for occupational back-support exoskeletons have focused, mostly, on lifting tasks. However, in occupational scenarios, it is important to account not only for lifting but also for other
05570|Towards Cross-Year Knowledge Transfer for Crop Classification: A Perspective from LLM-Assisted Active Learning
   > Cross-year crop classification using remote sensing data faces significant challenges due to temporal … Large Language Models (LLMs) combined with traditional remote sensing techniques to enhance cross-year crop classification. We propose a framework that utilizes LLM-based temporal pattern recognition
05571|Domain Adaptation for One-Class Classification: Monitoring the Health of Critical Systems Under Limited Information
   > each unit has its own specificity, we propose to extract features made independent of their origin by three unsupervised feature alignment techniques. First, using a
05572|Intraspecific genetic consequences of Pleistocene climate change on Lupinus microphyllus (Fabaceae) in the Andes
   > [no abstract]
05573|GPS: Generalizable Person Search on Large-Scale User-Generated Video Content
   > domain difference to surveillance scenes. In this work, we explore enhancing the out-of-domain generalization capabilities of person search models, and propose a generalizable framework on both feature-level and data-level generalization to facilitate downstream tasks in arbitrary scenarios. Specifically, we focus on learning … person search benchmarks without using any human annotation or samples
05574|The secret life of wild animals revealed by accelerometer data: how landscape diversity and seasonality influence the behavioural types of European ha
   > [no term] Landscape composition and configuration, as well as seasonal landscape dynamics shape the behaviour, movement and energy expenditure of animals, i.e. foraging, hiding or fleeing, and ultimately survival. Especially in highly
05575|Activity recognition in naturalistic environments using body-worn sensors
   > [no abstract]
05576|Domain Adaptation in the Context of Herbarium Collections: A submission to PlantCLEF 2020
   > [no abstract]
05577|SEDiT: Mask-Free Video Subtitle Erasure via One-step Diffusion Transformer
   > a localized editing task in which most pixels remain unchanged, the underlying distribution shift is minimal, making it well-suited to one-step generation under rectified flow.
05578|An Optimized and Lightweight DL-Based CNN Approach for Identifying Apple Leaf Alternaria Disease
   > apple leaf images, balanced between healthy and diseased samples, was acquired under real-world conditions and annotated by domain experts. The dataset underwent preprocessing, including color-based … to highlight diseased regions, and was augmented with transformations to improve model generalization. The proposed CNN architecture, comprising three convolutional blocks and a total of
05579|Integrated genomic and transcriptomic analysis suggests KRT18 mutation and MTAP are key genetic alterations related to the prognosis between astrocyto
   > [no term] Background Astrocytoma and glioblastoma (GBM) are the two main subtypes of glioma, with the 2016 World Health Organization Classification of Tumors of the Central Nervous System (CNS WHO) classifying them
05580|Agri-vision Bangladesh: A multi-crop augmented image dataset for automated disease diagnosis in Bottle Gourd, Zucchini, Papaya, and Tomato
   > Transformers) for precision agriculture, enabling research into fine-grained classification, object detection, and cross-crop transfer learning in subtropical farming environments.
05581|Helping CLIP See Both the Forest and the Trees: A Decomposition and Description Approach
   > like CLIP achieve cross-modal semantic alignment through contrastive learning, exhibiting robust zero-shot generalization. Traditional prompt engineering, however, predominantly relies on coarse-grained category labels, neglecting fine-grained … its inherent bias. We evaluate the proposed method under zero-shot, few-shot, and test-time adaptation settings, and extensive experiments demonstrate tha
05582|Phylogenetic Differentiation of Wild and Cultured Sea Bream (Sparus aurata) Populations: 2. Genotypic Analysis
   > [no term] : Stock identification aims to identify the subpopulations and several techniques may be used to this end. The aim of this study was to analyze and compare genetically between wild
05583|Analysis of support vector machine and maximum likelihood classifiers in land cover classification using Sentinel-2 images
   > [no abstract]
05584|Aphrophoridae Foam Detection using YOLOv11 for Sustainable Management of Xylella Fastidiosa Vectors
   > [no term] The growing threat of vector-borne pathogens, along with the impacts of pesticides on environmental ecosystems and human health, has significantly increased the interest in sustainable pest control strategies. This paper
05585|Improving cross-regional model transfer performance in crop classification by crop time series correction
   > ABSTRACT Cross-Regional Model Transfer (CRMT) provides a solution to crop classification challenges in target regions with limited labeled samples. However, when the source region (source domain) and the target region (target domain) are spatially distant, a shift in crop Satellite Image Time Series (SITS) occurs, resulting in suboptimal performance of SITS-based classification models in the targe
05586|Wild rice harbors more root endophytic fungi than cultivated rice in the F1 offspring after crossbreeding
   > of resistance to varying environmental conditions. Endophytic microbiota are known to be transferred with their host plants. Although some studies have reported on the endophytic
05587|High-Resolution Cartography of the Transcriptome and Methylome Landscapes of Diffuse Gliomas
   > [no term] Simple Summary A high degree of molecular heterogeneity is a fundamental characteristic of diffuse gliomas, a brain tumor entity, which splits into several subtypes of different but overall adverse prognosis.
05588|Study urban expansion in Mosul city using remote sensing data
   > expansion of Mosul city using Landsat 8 satellite data for the three different years 2009, 2014, 2019, respectively. Digital processing and image classification were used
05589|Classifying Chemical Bioactivity by Coupling High-throughput Phenotypic Anchoring and Transcriptome Profiling in Zebrafish
   > [no abstract]
05590|Deep learning based methodologies applied to industrial electromechanical systems monitoring
   > and machine learning tools, is presented. Finally, an intelligent diagnostic model utilizing domain adaptation techniques is proposed, resulting in the creation of a scalable model with the ability to generalize to fault scenarios under different operating conditions and address the issue of performance degradation. The proposed methodologies are studied and validated using experimental databases 
05591|YOLOv8 Based Animal Intrusion Detection System for Eco-Sensitive Zone High Ways
   > [no term] Animal Intrusion Detection (AID) System represents a sophisticated technological advancement designed to mitigate risks associated with the interaction between humans and wildlife. With its ability to detect the occurrence of
05592|DETECTION AND CATEGORIZATION OF PLANT LEAF DISEASES USING NEURAL NETWORKS
   > [no abstract]
05593|Automating Animal Intrusion Detection in Agriculture Fields
   > [no abstract]
05594|A Cross-Correlation Phenology-Based Crop Fields Classification Using Sentinel-2 Time-Series
   > and used for better monitoring spatio-temporal variations of crops species through the future years and guiding agricultural management accordingly. Our case studies are the regions
05595|Reconstruction of the polarization distribution of the Rice-Mele model
   > moments are all equal. In this limit, if the on-site interaction is decreased towards zero, the distribution shifts towards the midpoint of the unit cell, but the overall shape … this limit, if alternate hoppings are finite, and the on-site interaction is decreased, the distribution also shifts towards the midpoint of the unit cell, but
05596|IMPLEMENTASI PROGRAM BANTUAN PANGAN NON TUNAI(BPNT) MELALUI ELEKTRONIK WARUNG(Studi Pada Kelurahan Rajabasa Jaya, Kecamatan Rajabasa,Kota Bandar Lampu
   > [no abstract]
05597|Predicting Crop Yield in Quezon Province, Philippines Using Gaussian Process Regression: A Data-Driven Approach for Agriculture Sustainability
   > and sustainable agriculture while serving as a model for similar initiatives in other regions. Furthermore, this research highlights the crucial role of data-driven approaches in
05598|Learning Food Picking without Food: Fracture Anticipation by Breaking Reusable Fragile Objects
   > instead of consuming real foods while making the picking ability object-invariant with domain generalization (DG). In real-robot experiments, we trained a model with reusable objects
05599|Abstract 3672: Coordinated roles of CHD1 and SPOP in prostate cancer pathogenesis
   > [no abstract]
05600|ANTI-POACHING - Conservation of wild life
   > [no abstract]
05601|Interface-guided phenotyping of coding variants in the transcription factor RUNX1
   > [no term] SUMMARY Single-gene missense mutations remain challenging to interpret. Here, we deploy scalable functional screening by sequencing (SEUSS), a Perturb-seq method, to generate mutations at protein interfaces of RUNX1 and quantify
05602|Sparse-Based Domain Adaptation Network for OCTA Image Super-Resolution Reconstruction
   > high-resolution (HR) representations. To be more specific, we first perform a simple degradation of the <inline-formula><tex-math notation="LaTeX">$3\times \text{3}\,{\rm{mm}}^{2}$</tex-math></inline-formula>/high-resolution (HR) image to obtain the synthetic LR
05603|Predicting Drug Sensitivity in TP53-Mutated Cancer via Quantum Boltzman Machines
   > [no term] Mutations in the TP53 gene are among the most prevalent alterations in human cancers and are known to influence therapeutic responses. Accurate prediction of drug sensitivity based on TP53 mutation
05604|Detection and classification of chromosomes with sister chromatid cohesion defects using object detection models
   > [no term] Sister chromatid cohesion (SCC) is mediated by a protein complex called cohesin and by regulatory proteins that control cohesin function. A commonly used approach to evaluate the involvement of cohesin
05605|On Calibrating Semantic Segmentation Models: Analyses and An Algorithm
   > [no term] We study the problem of semantic segmentation calibration. Lots of solutions have been proposed to approach model miscalibration of confidence in image classification. However, to date, confidence calibration research on
05606|Estimating Potato Nitrogen Content Using Active Transfer Learning Based on UAV Hyperspectral Imagery
   > using remote sensing data, driven by advancements in machine learning models. However, external factors such as interannual variability, soil heterogeneity, and fertilization management often influence … Transfer learning has gained attention as an effective strategy to enhance model generalization, yet the domain adaptability of transferred samples remains a pressing challenge that warrants furth
05607|Study on Powder Coke Combustion and Pollution Emission Characteristics of Fluidized Bed Boilers
   > [no term] The fluidized reactor is widely used in a number of chemical processes due to its high gas-particle contacting efficiency and excellent performance on solid mixing. An improved numerical framework based
05608|Identification and classification of pathogenic Fusarium isolates from cultivated Korean cucurbit plants
   > cultivated Korean cucurbit plants, specifically watermelon and cucumber. Thirty-six Fusarium isolates from different regions of Korea were obtained from the National Institute of Horticulture and
05609|A framework for mapping cropping pattern using time series Earth observation data
   > sustainable agricultural practices. To support this transition, various incentives are offered across different regions, motivating farmers to implement practices like Agroforestry and managed hedgerows, which
05610|A labeled image dataset of common tomato diseases for classification and object detection
   > classification, object detection, and phenotyping, and supports deep learning model training and cross-crop transfer learning applications.
05611|Quad-Stream Deepfake Detection: Combining Spatial and Frequency Domain Analysis for Robust Video Authentication
   > quad-stream approach improves robustness under challenging conditions such as video compression and cross-dataset evaluation. An ablation study confirms that each stream (face vs. frame, spatial … integrating spatial and frequency information at multiple scales yields a significantly more generalizable deepfake detector.
05612|Early-Season Crop Classification with Planet Fusion
   > a country with extensive climatic diversity like France, our experiments, spanning two different years, demonstrated that a variety of crop types—including winter cereals, maize, and
05613|Robust Facial Image Gender Identification Based on a Comparison between Non-Boosted and Ada-Boosted Classification Algorithms
   > [no abstract]
05614|Adaptive Feature Learning for Robust Pathogen Detection in Plants
   > by using domain-adaptive feature extraction. The ResNet50 model has been adjusted and trained on the Plant Village dataset specifically for the purpose of extracting features. … Neural Network (DNN) with two hidden layers. The integrated model is then trained on a distinct dataset that is especially targeted against plant pathogens. The
05615|DeepFarm: AI-Driven Management of Farm Production using Explainable Causality
   > forecast and quantity the impact of outlier events on crop yield across different regions in the US.
05616|Exergy Analysis of Surface Condenser in a 10 MW Thermal Power Plant and Compare with Artificial Neural Network Modelling Values
   > [no term] The efficiency and performance of a system is evaluated by exergy analysis, considering both the quantity and quality of energy. It is one of the methods in thermodynamics. The most
05617|AI Based Animal Detection and Repellent System
   > [no term] Abstract - Wild animals entering agricultural fields has become a growing concern, especially for farmers living near forest areas and wildlife corridors. In many regions, farmers experience significant crop damage
05618|Government Audits and Rural Revitalization: Causal Evidence From China
   > promoting rural transformation. In this context, government audits (GA) serve as an independent external oversight mechanism. They play a critical role in ensuring the effective implementation … promote green financial development. (3) The impact of national audits varies across different regions, depending on the level of financial supervision and market development.
05619|Traumatic brain injury is a longitudinal disease process.
   > [no abstract]
05620|Applications, databases and open computer vision research from drone videos and images: a survey
   > [no abstract]
05621|CRISPR-Cas9 and beyond: identifying target genes for developing disease-resistant plants.
   > [no term] Throughout the history of crop domestication, desirable traits have been selected in agricultural products. However, such selection often leads to crops and vegetables with weaker vitality and viability than their
05622|Two Experts Are All You Need for Steering Thinking: Reinforcing Cognitive Effort in MoE Reasoning Models Without Additional Training
   > benchmarks demonstrate noticeable and consistent improvements in reasoning accuracy, cognitive efficiency, and cross-domain generalization. Crucially, our lightweight approach substantially outperforms prevalent reasoning-steering techniques, such as prompt
05623|How Transferable are Herbarium-Field Features in Few-Shot Plant Identification with Triplet Loss?
   > to the limited tropical plant field photos but increasing digitized herbarium specimens, cross-domain plant identification has been employed to investigate the use of herbarium specimens on automated plant identification. However, the domain shift between herbarium and field images makes identifying plant species across these … has yet to be studied in depth in this field. Specifically, the transf
05624|SimCast: Enhancing Precipitation Nowcasting with Short-to-Long Term Knowledge Distillation
   > the strengths from probabilistic models to overcome limitations such as blurriness and distribution shift in deterministic outputs. Extensive experimental results on three benchmark datasets validate
05625|Saliency Guided Discriminative Learning for Insect Pest Recognition
   > Recognition of insect pests in the wild plays a key role in crop protection. Large-scale pest recognition
05626|Robust prediction of soluble solids content in pomelo across storage time using a gated mixture-of-experts model with near-infrared transmittance spec
   > to a non-stationary relationship between spectral response and quality, resulting in performance degradation when non-destructive detection models, established under specific time conditions, are applied across different time periods or batches. To address this distribution shift issue, this paper proposes a spectral quality detection method based on
05627|Ontogenetic shifts and architectural plasticity define the regeneration niche of Taxus baccata at its southern dry limit
   > p = 0.017). For the sapling stage (≥ 1.3 m height), this distribution shifted to a strict negative exponential decay (p < 0.001), identifying the
05628|Geospatial Analysis and Machine Learning for Site Suitability of Geothermal Energy Plants
   > a framework for using machine learning to categorize the geothermal prospects of different regions. The findings therefore call for multi-disciplinary studies in enhancing the viable
05629|Playback‐Aided Surveys and Acoustic Monitoring in the Detection of the Endangered Forest Owlet Athene blewitti
   > [no term] Long-term monitoring of populations of rare, endangered species is often challenging. Both the availability of baseline historical datasets and appropriate methods for long-term monitoring are often limited. Anthropogenic climate change
05630|Reducing Post-Harvest Losses in Sri Lankan Pineapple Farming Through YOLOv8-Based Ripeness Detection
   > of 89%, and an F1- score of 90.5%, demonstrating its reliability in real-world conditions. Performance tests confirmed the system’s efficiency, with an average detection time
05631|Semantic Segmentation Network for Unstructured Rural Roads Based on Improved SPPM and Fused Multiscale Features
   > Roads Dataset (RRD), which includes a diverse set of rural scenes from different regions and environmental conditions. Experimental results demonstrate that our model significantly outperforms
05632|Adaptability and stability of transgenic soybean lines and cultivars in the Brazilian macroregion 3 assessed by using parametric and nonparametric met
   > repetitions. Individual and joint analyses were done considering genotype yield in the different locations. Subsequently, genotypic adaptability and stability were evaluated by the methods of
05633|Predicting potential distribution of Ziziphus spinosa (Bunge) H.H. Hu ex F.H. Chen in China under climate change scenarios
   > [no term] Abstract Ziziphus spinosa (Bunge) H.H. Hu ex F.H. Chen is a woody plant species of the family Rhamnaceae (order Rhamnales) that possesses high nutritional and medicinal value. Predicting the effects
05634|Diel metabolic plasticity of CAM photosynthesis in MD-2 pineapple (Ananas comosus) under contrasting tropical environments: biochemical patterns and a
   > the development of precise management strategies that respond to metabolic plasticity under real-world conditions. Closing this gap is essential to enhance productivity, uniformity, and sustainability
05635|Development of a UAV Object Tracking OpenCV for Smart Security
   > farmer livestock now in africa area. For this reason, productivity in agriculture decreases over time resulting in poor production of crops and even killing of
05636|Time course measurements of leaf elevation angles during shade avoidance response in Arabidopsis thaliana using Raspberry Pi computers and computer vi
   > [no term] Shade avoidance response in plants includes a higher leaf elevation angle. A cost-effective and noninvasive high throughput image analysis technique was used to measure the dynamics of leaf elevation angles
05637|Cassava Disease Classification Using Squeezenet CNN Technique
   > for mitigating these effects. Cassava, a significant crop in the Philippines and other regions, faces challenges from various diseases, necessitating advanced diagnostic methods. This study
05638|GMaxViT: Gabor Multi-axis Vision Transformer for Tomato Disease Identification
   > [no term] Plant disease detection is one of the most important topics of precision agriculture that aims to protect and boost crop yields. Commonly, intelligent systems based on Convolutional Neural Networks are
05639|Leveraging Feature Alignment in Grassmannian Manifold for Multi-Output Regression Tasks
   > Despite notable progress in domain adaptation for classification, regression-based domain adaptation remains challenging, particularly in terms of handling complex data structures, ensuring cross-domain generalization, and maintaining the precision and mathematical rigor required to validate model effectiveness. … regression tasks are notably more sensitive, making their performance more vulnerabl
05640|Analysis of Visual Sequences for Driver Drowsiness Detection
   > high recall in detecting drowsy states. The findings underscore the model’s strong generalization capabilities across diverse real-world conditions, positioning DenseNet121 as a highly promising candidate for deployment in vision-based
05641|A Comparative Study on Unsupervised Domain Adaptation Approaches for Coffee Crop Mapping
   > In this work, we investigate the application of existing unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) approaches to the task of transferring knowledge between crop regions
05642|Classifying molecular phenotypes of G6PC variants for pathogenic properties and to guide therapeutic development
   > [no term] Due to advances in sequencing technologies, identification of genetic variants is rapid. However, the functional consequences of most genomic variants remain unknown. Consequently, variants of uncertain significance (VUS) that appear
05643|Discrimination of the Geographical Origin of the Lateral Roots of Aconitum carmichaelii Using the Fingerprint, Multicomponent Quantification, and Chem
   > fingerprint analysis. The measured results of 32 batches of Fuzi from three different regions were evaluated by chemometric analysis, including similarity analysis (SA), hierarchical cluster … category, while the Fuzi samples from Butuo and Yunnan were put into another category. The LDA analysis provided an efficient and satisfactory prediction model for
05644|Assessment of Reservoir Water Quality Using Multivariate Statistical Techniques: A Case Study of Qiandao Lake, China
   > index and total phosphorus as the significant variables for distinguishing variations of different years, with 79.9% correct assignments. Dissolved oxygen, pH and chlorophyll-a were determined
05645|Bayesian-Optimized Support Vector Regression for UAV-Based Multistage Wheat Yield Prediction
   > indices were then computed and all features were standardized and evaluated using spatial cross-validation to avoid spatial bias. Furthermore, SVR was trained with the parameters … Greedy Forest (RBF) kernel and optimized through a Bayesian search, confirming better generalization. Furthermore, the (SHAP) analysis provided interpretability by identifying the key indices and
05646|High levels of seed dispersal by a declining wintering population of migratory geese
   > and simulated potential seed dispersal distances to assess the importance of this decreasing wintering population for dispersal of dry‐fruited plants previously assumed to rely on … interactions involving migratory waterbirds in the current context of species loss and distribution shifts, as many crucial interactions may be disappearing even before they are
05647|IoT-Enabled Smart Security Surveillance System for Farmland and Livestock Monitoring Using Computer Vision
   > [no term] Agriculture is the main source of income of every country and agriculture plays a critical role in sustaining human civilization by providing food, fuel, and other essential resources. Even though,
05648|AI Naturalists Might Hold the Key to Unlocking Biodiversity Data in Social Media Imagery
   > [no term] Summary The increasing availability of digital images, coupled with sophisticated artificial intelligence (AI) techniques for image classification, presents an exciting opportunity for biodiversity researchers to create new datasets of species
05649|BananaLSD: A banana leaf images dataset for classification of banana leaf diseases using machine learning
   > leaves collected from banana fields, which were then further augmented to generate another 1600 images. The images were acquired using three smartphone cameras in diverse real-world conditions. The dataset has potential for reuse in the development of machine
05650|Real-Field-Ready and Digitally Sustainable Plant Disease Recognition via Federated Multimodal Edge Learning and Few-Shot Domain Adaptation
   > Plant disease diagnosis in real-world agricultural environments is challenged by data scarcity, domain shift, privacy constraints, and limited edge-device resources. This paper proposes FMEL-FSDA, a Federated Multimodal Edge Learning framework with Few-Shot Domain Adaptation for robust field-based plant disease recognition. The framework integrates attention-based RGB–text … farms without sharing 
05651|Distribution Shifts of Vaccinium Berry Wild Relatives in China Under Climate and Land‐Use Changes
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Predicting species distributions under future environmental change is essential for understanding biodiversity responses and informing conservation planning. Vaccinium, a genus that includes important germplasm resources for many commercial berry
05652|Benchmarking Geospatial Foundation Models for Agriculture Applications
   > Geospatial foundation models pretrained on satellite imagery promise broad generalization across remote sensing tasks and regions, but their geographic transferability has not been systematically tested, especially in agriculture applications. This paper presents … well each model transfers to land it has not seen. All three degrade sharply under regional distribution shift, predicting only the mo
05653|A hierarchical reinforcement learning-based hot rolling scheduling model
   > [no term] Hot rolling scheduling in steel plants is critical for resource utilisation, equipment efficiency, and cost control, yet conventional human- or rule-based approaches struggle with dynamic demand, strict process constraints, and
05654|Dynamic maize true leaf area index retrieval with KGCNN and TL and integrated 3D radiative transfer modeling for crop phenotyping
   > transfer learning (TL) techniques for cross-temporal adaptation. The KGCNN model was initially pre-trained on synthetic datasets generated by the large-scale remote sensing scattering model (LESS), followed by domain-specific fine-tuning using 2021 field measurements, and culminating in cross-year validation with 2022-2023 datasets. Our results demonstrated significant improvements over convention
05655|Wild-type APC predicts poor prognosis in microsatellite-stable proximal colon cancer
   > mutation status, and classifier ability to predict prognosis was examined in an independent cohort.Results:Wild-type APC microsatellite stable (APC-wt/MSS) tumours from the proximal colon showed poorer
05656|Leveraging Hybrid Deep and Machine Learning Models for Plant Disease Classification
   > many plant disease datasets, PlantDoc contains images captured in uncontrolled environments, simulating real-world conditions. Features extracted from the CNN models were subsequently classified using various
05657|Similarity Makes Difference: SSHTN for Generalized Zero-Shot Industrial Fault Diagnosis by Leveraging Auxiliary Set
   > The generalized zero-shot diagnosis (GZSD) has attracted rising attention from researchers, but faces a major bottleneck: the domain shift problem (DSP), which causes most unseen faults to be misclassified as seen. In this study, we propose a … of auxiliary set, which is different from known faults (both seen and unseen), SSHTN defines relative boundaries of seen and unseen faults in the similarit
05658|Plant functional traits predict heterogeneous distributional shifts in response to climate change
   > [no abstract]
05659|Climate change impacts on thermal growing conditions of main fruit species in Portugal
   > [no abstract]
05660|Water Quality Analysis Utilizing Classification Algorithms
   > Physicochemical factors are considered for the present study. Water samples from five different sites along the lakes in Chh. Sambhaji Nagar for the period of
05661|Diversity, relative abundance, and habitat association of avian species in Tara Gedam Monastery forest and adjacent habitats, Northwestern Ethiopia
   > and pest control. However, they are threatened by habitat loss, fragmentation, and degradation. Study on species diversity, relative abundance, and habitat associations of avifauna were
05662|Visual Perception of Objects and their Parts in Artificial Systems
   > [no abstract]
05663|Efficient Algorithms for Semirandom Planted CSPs at the Refutation Threshold
   > [no term] We present an efficient algorithm to solve semirandom planted instances of any Boolean constraint satisfaction problem (CSP). The semirandom model is a hybrid between worst case and average case input
05664|First Report of Enterobacter kobei and Enterobacter mori Causing Ginger Bacterial Wilt in China.
   > harvested from various ginger-cultivated fields. Ten symptomatic plants were randomly sampled from different locations, and decayed stem tissues were excised, surface-sterilized with 1% NaClO for
05665|Generation of new cisgenic apple lines resistant to either apple scab or fire blight
   > [no term] Cisgenic introduction of Rvi15 or FB_MR5 into ‘Gala’ generated single-copy lines with ≤ 201 bp vector remnants and high disease resistance, supporting cisgenesis as a powerful tool for commercial apple
05666|First Steps Toward Understanding the Regional Identity of Hops Grown in the Willamette Valley, Oregon
   > drought year, yield was halved from 1,800 to 900 kg/ha, and -acids decreased from 11.5 to 6.2%. Similar patterns were observed over a 6-year period … herein examined two American hop varieties, Sterling and Centennial, grown at three different locations within the Willamette Valley. The work began at the request of
05667|FlagDetSeg: Multi-Nation Flag Detection and Segmentation in the Wild
   > [no term] We present a simple and effective flag detection approach for multi-nation flag instance segmentation in-the-wild based on data augmentation and Mask-RCNN PointRend. To the best of our knowledge, this is
05668|Learning golf swing signatures from a single wrist-worn inertial sensor
   > [no term] Despite its importance for performance and injury prevention, golf swing analysis is limited by isolated metrics, underrepresentation of professional athletes, and a lack of rich, interpretable movement representations. We address
05669|DODA: Diffusion for Object-detection Domain Adaptation in Agriculture
   > [no abstract]
05670|Spatial Associations Between Shallow Cropland Soil Organic Carbon and the Agro-Ecological Environment in the Plateau Lake Basin: A Dual-Perspective As
   > neural network-long short-term memory with squeeze-and-excitation and temporal attention (CNN-LSTM-SE-TA, CLST). Five independent CLST models with identical inputs were separately trained to predict SOC, soil … CLST model significantly outperformed benchmark methods, exhibiting superior prediction accuracy and spatiotemporal generalization ability. SOC content in the Erhai Lake basin exhibited an 
05671|A high-throughput pipeline for phenotyping, object detection and quantification of leaf trichomes
   > to rapidly quantify leaf edge trichomes. We used the phenotype acquisition method in the wild wheat progenitor Aegilops tauschii in combination with k-mer-based Genome-Wide Association
05672|TEBAKA: a technological platform for Apulian crop monitoring
   > standard machine learning algorithm (Random Forest) fed with Haralick features. The DCNN, pre-trained on ImageNet-1000 and fine-tuned on a 4-class problem, including vineyard, olive groves, … performance with an overall accuracy of 77±5 % when performing a repeated spatial cross-validation. The experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach in
05673|Beyond Labels: Contrastive Representation Learning for Scalable Image-Based Plant Disease Diagnosis
   > transformers methods. By less reliance on labeled data and improving robustness to real-world conditions, this strategy provides both a scalable and practical solution for plant
05674|Improving the training efficiency of automated fault detection and diagnosis for central chilled water plants by transfer learning
   > resource for network training, transfer learning is applied to the AFDD at different sites. The subjects were central chilled water plants, which are the waterside
05675|Manifestation-Aware Contrastive Learning for Cross-Domain Tomato Disease Classification with Limited Data
   > remains challenging due to limited training data, high visual variability, and poor cross-domain generalization between curated and field conditions. Existing vision-language models often fail to capture … robust representations from limited data without additional annotation. Extensive experiments across four unseen datasets spanning both curated and field conditions demonstrate that MACL signifi
05676|Small but important
   > [no abstract]
05677|A4AWD: Augmenting Aerial Weed Detection Over Residential Lawns
   > the lack of annotated aerial lawn weed datasets forces detectors to be trained on public ground-level datasets, introducing a ground-to-aerial domain shift that significantly degrades detection accuracy. To address these challenges, we propose A4AWD, a lightweight inference-time
05678|Utilizing autoencoders to improve transfer learning when sensor data is sparse
   > models using data from an adopted domain, and fine-tuning it on the target domain. However, due to the significant distributional shift between the commonly adopted source domains for transfer learning and the target domain of wastewater processes, transfer learning rarely performs at an acceptable level. … training data with a similar distribution to a sample taken from the target domain, to boos
05679|One to segment them All: A Data-based Domain Generalization approach for Solar Module segmentation using Thermal UAV Images
   > Using trained deep learning models on an out-of-distribution dataset could affect those models’ performance, which is most likely to decline due to the domain shift between the training domain and the target domain. To this end, Domain Generalization (DG) is one of the tools used to improve the generalization rate of the model and increase its adaptability to unseen data. Using a data-based domain
05680|GTPBD: A Fine-Grained Global Terraced Parcel and Boundary Dataset
   > different tasks, including semantic segmentation, edge detection, terraced parcel extraction, and unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) tasks.Accordingly, we benchmark the GTPBD dataset on eight semantic segmentation
05681|Integrating Optical and SAR Time Series Images for Unsupervised Domain Adaptive Crop Mapping
   > maximum mean discrepancy (LMMD) is embedded into the model to measure and decrease domain discrepancies between source and target domains. As a result, a well-trained model in a source domain can still maintain satisfactory accuracy when applied to a target domain. In the training process, MDACCN incorporates the labeled samples from a source domain and unlabeled samples from a target domain. When
05682|Pengembangan Model Jaringan Saraf Tiruan untuk Menduga Emisi Gas Rumah Kaca dari Lahan Sawah dengan Berbagai Rejim Air
   > the model, two experiments were conducted in the pot experiments in two different locations. The first location was in the greenhouse of Meiji University, Kanagawa
05683|A Visual Question Answering Dataset for Benchmarking Vision-Language Models in Plant Science
   > dataset yields substantial improvements across all question categories, demonstrating its effectiveness for domain adaptation.
05684|Do temperature shocks affect non-agriculture wages in Brazil? Evidence from individual-level panel data
   > real wages. Assuming a uniform climate change scenario where the daily temperature distribution shifts by 2$^{\circ }$C, we calculate income losses for formal workers in
05685|Cell shapes decode molecular phenotypes in image-based spatial proteomics
   > Using the same coordinate framework defined by shape, we could analyze the distribution shift of protein spatial localization under drug perturbation.
05686|Predicting the Potential Distribution of the Endangered Plant Eucommia ulmoides in China under the Background of Climate Change
   > [no term] Eucommia ulmoides, a single extant species of Eucommiaceae, is a perennial deciduous tree distributed across central China. The bark of E. ulmoides is rich in chlorogenic acid and flavonoids that
05687|SRNSD: Structure-Regularized Night-Time Self-Supervised Monocular Depth Estimation for Outdoor Scenes
   > for night-time self-supervised depth estimation form a monocular image. However, the performance degrades considerably compared to day-time depth estimation due to significant domain gaps, low … incorporates three aspects of constraints for better performance, including feature and depth domain adaptation, image perspective constraint, and cropped multi-scale consistency loss. Specifically, we uti
05688|A Three-Stage Reinforcement Learning Pipeline for Autonomous Process Control in the Papermaking Industry
   > Additional analyses examine robustness with respect to action noise, reward-weight perturbations, and out-of-distribution states. The proposed framework provides a systematic simulation study illustrating the application
05689|Development of a Land Suitability Framework for Sustainable Manure Utilization
   > is a significant source of nutrient pollution that contributes to water quality degradation worldwide. This study presents a land suitability framework and accompanying decision-support tools … factors in the case study area. The framework and accompanying tools are transferable across watershed boundaries and can help identify areas where environmentally sustainable animal
05690|IRS: Incremental Relationship-guided Segmentation for Digital Pathology
   > holistic segmentation framework. Moreover, an ideal segmentation model should incorporate new phenotypes, unseen diseases, and diverse populations, making this task even more complex. In this … (IRS) learning scheme to address temporally acquired, partially annotated data while maintaining out-of-distribution (OOD) continual learning capacity in digital pathology. The key innovation of IRS
05691|Senescence Reversion in Plant Images Using Perception and Unpaired Data
   > using herbarium images for automatic plant identification, and in particular to do domain adaptation to field images, has been promising. A potential way to address such domain adaptation problem is generative: Hallucinate how a herbarium image would have looked
05692|Assessment of habitat suitability for the globally threatened Cock-tailed Tyrant Alectrurus tricolor (Passeriformes: Tyrannidae)
   > (AUC = 0.974). Results revealed three main distributional clusters: one in Brazil, another spanning Mato Grosso do Sul, Paraguay and north-eastern Argentina, and a separate
05693|PA02 (P28): Prediction of FLG genotype using human and computer‐aided phenotype extraction with random forest machine learning
   > the midline of the anterior scalp extending from the skin to the external cortex of the skull. A general prominence of the scalp fat in
05694|Generative Data Augmentation Method for Sonar Images Based on Diffusion Model
   > [no term] Sonar object detection is constrained by scarce instance-level annotations, high acquisition costs, and long-tailed category distributions in real underwater environments. To address these limitations, this paper proposes a generative data
05695|HSDNet: a poultry farming model based on few-shot semantic segmentation addressing non-smooth and unbalanced convergence
   > real-time monitoring of poultry. Nonetheless, the model encounters limitations when exposed to new environments, diverse breeding varieties, or varying growth stages within the same species,
05696|Real vs Synthetic: Evaluating Dcgan Augmentation for Rice Leaf Disease Classification
   > 100% real samples. Findings indicate that low-fidelity DCGAN images introduce artifacts and distribution shifts harmful to transformer models. Thus, for practical precision agriculture, curating diverse,
05697|Recollection and conservation of Vatica javanica subsp. scaphifolia, a critically endangered endemic tree species in Southeastern Borneo
   > [no term] Vatica javanica subsp. scaphifolia (Kosterm.) P.S.Ashton (Dipterocarpaceae) is an endemic tree confined to Southeastern Borneo. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List classifies the species as Critically
05698|ANTDCC: A Lightweight and Generalizable Framework for Long-Term Photovoltaic Power Forecasting via Adaptive Normalization and Dynamic Channel Clusteri
   > forecasting tasks where accurately modeling multi-channel temporal dependencies and adapting to dynamic distribution shifts have become critical issues. To address the limitations of existing methods … method has significantly outperformed baseline models across four forecasting horizons, exhibiting superior generalization ability, thereby providing effective support for intelligent PV plant sched
05699|Investigating Ethnomathematics in Traditional Farming in Bitefa Village, North Central Timor District
   > using Spradley's research sequence approach, domain analysis, taxonomic analysis, component analysis, and cross-domain theme analysis. The results show that spatial planting patterns aim to facilitate
05700|When Data Augmentation Fails in Remote Sensing Detection: A Systematic Review of Adverse Effects, Failure Classes, and Physics Constraints
   > [no abstract]
05701|Anthracnose Detection and Classification in Chilli Leaves Using Mobile Net: UAV Images
   > sustainable and enriching crop production to fulfill the Nation’s food demands. A degradation in the health of the crop leads to low crop yields. Out … promise for offering an effective, high-throughput technique for detecting plant diseases in real-world conditions. Hence the dataset utilized for our model is aerial images using
05702|Nonpathogenic Cutibacterium acnes Confers Host Resistance against Staphylococcus aureus
   > [no term] Cutibacterium acnes is one of the most common bacterial species residing on the human skin. Although the pathogenic properties of C. acnes, such as its association with acne vulgaris, have
05703|BanglaVeg: A curated vegetable image dataset from Bangladesh for precision agriculture
   > including local markets, agricultural fields, and homes, using phone cameras to represent real-world conditions better. All photos have undergone background removal and annotation to highlight
05704|Enhanced Tea Leaf Disease Classification Using Transfer Learning and Continuous Layer with Attention Mechanism
   > leaves and others six have diverse illness. The proposed model has been trained on this dataset. Image normalization, strategic up sampling, stratified data partitioning has been utilized to enhanced model generalization and class imbalance reduction. A well-known function called VariationalLoss utilized to penalize
05705|Animal intrusion detection based on convolutional neural network
   > [no abstract]
05706|A progressive fine-tuning strategy for domain-specific large language models in wastewater treatment plants safety
   > larger parameter scales, offering an effective and reproducible pathway for addressing analogous domain adaptation challenges.
05707|Contrastive View Design Strategies to Enhance Robustness to Domain Shifts in Downstream Object Detection
   > minimal investigation into the robustness of contrastively pretrained detectors when faced with domain shifts. To address this gap, we conduct an empirical study of contrastive … and elastic deformation. We benchmark these strategies on abstract, weather, and context domain shifts and illustrate robust ways to combine them, in both pretraining on
05708|Classification of Bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) Landraces with Heterogeneous Seed Color using a Probabilistic Representation
   > and CIE 1976 L*a*b*. We used 54 common bean landraces collected in different regions of the State of Oaxaca, Mexico. The classification accuracy of K-NN
05709|Modelling Climate Change Impacts on the Geographic Distribution of a Major Termite Pest, Odontotermes obesus (Rambur, 1842) (Blattodea: Termitidae) in
   > expansion under high-emission pathways, with intensification in present hotspots and colonization of new regions. Conversely, a substantial contraction in habitat suitability under the low-emission scenario
05710|A blended census and multiscale remote sensing approach to probabilistic cropland mapping in complex landscapes
   > digital elevation model were combined with 1 km field fractions in a Generalized Additive Model (GAM) to produce the field fractions. Sample dot grids were … related application could be achieved by manually digitizing additional sample data in other regions of Ethiopia or using existing crowd-sourced databases, such as Geo-Wiki.
05711|Intelligent Environmental Sensing Systems: Integrating IoT, Edge Computing, and Real-Time Analytics for Environmental Monitoring
   > on edge-deployable models, quantification of uncertainties, and query resistance to drift and domain shift. Lastly, we address the realities of deployment that condition operational success, … risks, ethical governance, and evaluation methodologies, which place end-to-end latency and field generalization as a priority. This review offers cohesion to algorithmic capabilities and systems
05712|Research on Personnel Performance Multimodal Dynamic Evaluation Method in Digital Main Control Room of Nuclear Power Plant
   > mental load measures were constructed. Leveraging a Transformer model integrated with adversarial domain adaptation techniques, dynamic prediction of operator performance was achieved. Experimental results demonstrate
05713|Planet Scale Mars Image Retrieval for Fast Mapping with Interactive Refinement [Demo]
   > DoMars16k retrieval benchmark—while using an order of magnitude fewer parameters. A systematic cross-domain comparison further shows that models optimized for Earth scenes generalize more poorly to Mars than generic Internet models, underscoring the importance of
05714|Species delimitation within the Bothryorrhynchapion weevils: Multiple evidence from genetics, morphology and ecological associations.
   > [no abstract]
05715|Cropland Mapping in Fragmented Agricultural Landscape Using Modified Pyramid Scene Parsing Network
   > data), the enhanced effect after adding high-resolution data, as well as the generalization ability of spatial and temporal generalization ability of the model had been verified.
05716|Making and Unmaking Populations
   > [no term] Statistics derives its power from classifying data and comparing the resulting distributions. In this paper, I will use two historical examples to highlight the importance of such data practices for
05717|MVDC: A Multi-View Domain Confusion Strategy for Cross Domain Change Detection
   > RS images based on deep learning (DL) has the problem of poor domain adaptation (DA) under geographical isolation conditions, especially in the cropland scene with … (MVDC) module is designed. The module performs discriminant operations on the generated source domain features and target, and guides the generator to generate more domain
05718|Multi-Scale Temporal Feature Decoupling for Climate-Robust Agricultural Machine Learning Models
   > variability directly influences crop productivity and food-security planning. Conventional machine learning models trained on raw meteorological time-series frequently conflate short-term synoptic weather anomalies, intra-annual seasonal … climatic trends into a single undifferentiated signal. This entanglement of temporal scales degrades model generalization across crop-years and geographies, pro
05719|Optimization and Validation of a Multitrait Physiological Drought Mitigation Index (PDMI) for Screening PGPR-Induced Drought Tolerance in Strawberry
   > in the top two. In the 2022 holdout, AJ 1.2 ranked first; cross-season rank agreement was positive but uncertain (Spearman’s ρ = 0.60, p =
05720|Rice-Field Mapping with Sentinel-1A SAR Time-Series Data
   > effectiveness of the proposed method in rice detection have been verified for different years and studied regions.
05721|Knockout of Lysosomal Enzyme-Targeting Gene Causes Abnormalities in Mouse Pup Isolation Calls
   > calls were different from their wild type littermates. Gnptab−/− mice showed a decrease in the length of calls, an increase in the intra-bout pause duration,
05722|Morphometric changes in subcortical structures of the central auditory pathway in mice with bilateral nodular heterotopia.
   > [no abstract]
05723|A Low-Resource Transformer-Based Deep Learning Framework for Precise Localization and Classification of Visible Crop Diseases
   > of 99%, outperforming conventional CNN and hybrid models. The model demonstrates robust generalization and can be extended to other crop types exhibiting similar symptoms without retraining, enabling cross-crop adaptability and few-shot learning. Its low computational cost and compatibility with embedded
05724|Hierarchical Deep Features Progressive Aggregation for Remote Sensing Images Scene Classification
   > aggregate features. To verify the performance of the proposed method, we implemented cross-domain experiments on four internationally available remote sensing image classification datasets: NWPU-RESISC45, WHU-RS19,
05725|Classification of IDH wild-type glioblastoma tumorspheres into low- and high-invasion groups based on their transcriptional program
   > [no term] Glioblastoma (GBM), one of the most lethal tumors, exhibits a highly infiltrative phenotype. Here, we identified transcription factors (TFs) that collectively modulate invasion-related genes in GBM. The invasiveness of tumorspheres
05726|ARAHAN PENGEMBANGAN KAWASAN AGROPOLITAN NGAWASONDAT BERDASARKAN KOMODITAS UNGGULAN DI KABUPATEN KEDIRI
   > [no abstract]
05727|Land cover intelligent mapping using transfer learning and semantic segmentation
   > and Warm Restart).We also assess the impact of data augmentation and temporal generalization of the model learned by predicting the location of irrigated areas at
05728|Digital Phenotyping of Emotional Support: Predicting Feelings of Love from Adolescent Smartphone Text Messaging Data
   > XGBoost). Within-dataset predictive performance was moderate (AUC: 0.55-0.78; balanced accuracy: 0.49-0.67), while cross-dataset generalization was weaker (AUC: 0.48-0.74; balanced accuracy: 0.48-0.63). Clustering analyses showed that predictive
05729|Cattle-CLIP: A Multimodal Framework for Cattle Behaviour Recognition
   > video-based behaviour understanding, enabling consistent semantic alignment across time. To mitigate the distribution shift between web-scale image-text data used for the pre-trained model and real-world … with near-perfect recall for feeding, drinking and standing-ruminating behaviours, and demonstrates robust generalisation with limited data in few-shot scenarios.
05730|Rice-growth-stage classification under persistent cloud using optical–synthetic aperture radar fusion and phenology-aware imputation
   > [no abstract]
05731|The Development of Effective Urban Farming Sales Method with Hydroponics Plantation System to Complete Instant Vegetable Supply in Urban Area
   > [no term] Urban Area Regency with limited land makes it difficult to plant with soil media; in this case the hydroponic media employees are intensifying the planting of water media. The Research
05732|European-derived coronary artery disease polygenic scores over-flag genetic risk in Vietnamese and Southeast Asian populations: a multi-score analysis
   > consequential when scores are used with risk thresholds. Methods. We evaluated four independent European-derived CAD scores from the PGS Catalog (PGS000058, PGS000349, PGS002809, PGS004198; 70 … depend on the specific score, so no such score can be assumed transferable without local validation and recalibration. Distribution shift bounds, but does not by itself quantify, loss of predictive accurac
05733|Functional food design of dandelion salad with antibacterial properties
   > [no term] Dandelion is a wild herbaceous plant commonly consumed in the daily diet of Western countries. It contains large amounts of nutrients including minerals, iron, calcium, sodium, magnesium, and vitamins A,
05734|Automated Detection of Retinal Cell Nuclei in 3D Micro-CT Images of Zebrafish using Support Vector Machine Classification
   > [no term] Our group is developing a method to examine biological specimens in cellular detail using synchrotron microCT. The method can acquire 3D images of tissue at micrometer-scale resolutions, allowing for individual
05735|Connect Later: Improving Fine-tuning for Robustness with Targeted Augmentations
   > Models trained on a labeled source domain (e.g., labeled images from wildlife camera traps) often generalize poorly when deployed on an out-of-distribution (OOD) target domain (e.g., images from new camera trap locations). In the domain adaptation setting where unlabeled target data is available, self-supervised pretraining (e.g., masked … generic data augmentations used (e.g., masking or cropping
05736|Detecting and discriminating between different types of bacteria with a low-cost smartphone based optical device and neural network models
   > [no term] The food industry such as meat producers and plant product processors have tremendous interest in detecting pathogenic organisms such as E.coli, Listeria, and Salmonella in very low concentrations down to
05737|Implementing a Portable Clinical NLP System with a Common Data Model – a Lisp Perspective
   > Model (CDM) to standardize necessary data elements. It utilizes UMLS to perform domain adaptation when integrating generic domain NLP tools. It also features stand-off annotations
05738|UCS: A Universal Model for Curvilinear Structure Segmentation
   > plant analysis. While existing methods achieve high performance within specific domains, their generalizability is limited. On the other hand, large-scale models such as Segment Anything Model (SAM) exhibit strong generalization but are not optimized for curvilinear structures. Existing adaptations of SAM primarily … (UCS) model, which adapts SAM to CSS tasks while further enhancing its cross-doma
05739|Rapid assessment of enniatins in barley grains using near infrared spectroscopy and chemometric tools.
   > (ENN) content on barley grains. Sixty samples of barley grains from three different regions of Brazil were investigated and the ENN content determined by UPLC-MS/MS.
05740|Quasi-Unsupervised Fruit Counting Using Domain Adaptation and Spatial Consistency
   > [no abstract]
05741|Temporal Robustness of Thermal-Based Capsicum Detection in Greenhouse Using Random and Time-Aware Data Partitioning
   > splitting (70-15-15) and a time-sensitive day-night partitioning strategy that explicitly introduces temporal distribution shift. YOLOv11m delivered the highest results in random partitioning with 94.37% accuracy, … 91.79 and 97.40 mAP@0.50, whereas Faster R-CNN exhibited a greater level of degradation. The findings indicate that time-sensitive analysis can indicate genuine generalization exercise
05742|Alpine plants are on the move: Quantifying distribution shifts of Australian alpine plants through time
   > [no term] Alpine plant species’ distributions are thought to have been shifting to higher elevations in response to climate change. By moving upslope, species can occupy cooler and more suitable environments as
05743|An Intelligent Deep Learning Approach for Wild Animal Detection and Alert System Using YOLOv11
   > conflict (HWC) is on the rise owing to accelerated urbanization and forest degradation, resulting in regular animal intrusions causing crop loss, property destruction, and accidents.
05744|Recent Advancement in NGS Technologies
   > [no abstract]
05745|Geochemical Factors as a Tool for Distinguishing Geogenic from Anthropogenic Sources of Potentially Toxic Elements in the Soil
   > [no term] Potentially toxic element (PTE) contamination of soils and their sources remains one of key global environmental concerns. Agricultural soil in Kalinovac, Podravina region, Croatia is the subject of this study.
05746|Estimation of Peanut Southern Blight Severity in Hyperspectral Data Using the Synthetic Minority Oversampling Technique and Fractional-Order Different
   > 1D-CNN, SVM, and KNN models were conducted using experimental data from two different locations. In conclusion, our results indicate that the SMOTE-FOD-1D-CNN model enhances the
05747|Genetic diversity and cross-species transmissibility of bat-associated picornaviruses from Spain
   > Background Emerging zoonotic diseases arise from cross-species transmission events between wild or domesticated animals and humans, with bats being … new picorna-like viruses by collecting feces from hundreds of bats captured in different regions of Spain. Viral sequences were obtained by high-throughput Illumina sequencing and
05748|Recognizing Plant Species in the Wild: Deep Learning Results and a New Database
   > [no abstract]
05749|Significance of Time-Frequency preprocessing for automatic Ultrasonic Vocalization classification in Autism Spectrum Disorder model detection
   > [no term] Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a complex neurodevelopmental condition of unclear cause and varying severity, often studied using mice as animal models. To accurately distinguish between wild type and ASD
05750|PROMOTER AND PHYTOTOXIC EFFECTS OF ETHANOLIC EXTRACTS OF CHILTEPIN IN THE ARABIDOPSIS THALIANA MODEL EVALUATED BY ECOEXERGY
   > [no term] . Chiltepin ( Capsicum annuum var. glabriusculum ) is a wild plant resource with a wide geographical distribution in Mexico and it is part of life in rural societies in
05751|DISC: Dense Integrated Semantic Context for Large-Scale Open-Set Semantic Mapping
   > [no term] Open-set semantic mapping enables language-driven robotic perception, but current instance-centric approaches are bottlenecked by context-depriving and computationally expensive crop-based feature extraction. To overcome this fundamental limitation, we introduce DISC (Dense
05752|Regional feature purification contrastive learning for wheat biotic stress detection
   > W-Paste approach enhances the model’s resilience to input perturbations, hence augmenting its out-of-distribution detection efficacy. Additionally, the creation of a feature purification encoder enhances feature
05753|Direct and accurate feature extraction from 3D point clouds of plants using RANSAC
   > dimensional (3D) organisms whose morphology is complex, varies from one individual to another and changes over time. Objective measurement of attributes in 3D point cloud … direct analysis of plants of point cloud data. To this end, we generalise the random sample consensus (RANSAC) algorithm for the analysis of 3D point
05754|Grassland monitoring based on Sentinel-1
   > processing methods to detect cutting frequencies from radar satellite data in three different regions in Bavaria is included. The common statistical detection represents a robust
05755|Addressing Class Imbalance in Oil Palm Disease and Micronutrient Deficiency Detection Using Meta-Learned Transfer Metric Learning
   > performance. These findings confirm that MetaTMLDA effectively addresses both class imbalance and domain shift, providing a scalable solution for precision agriculture through earlier and more
05756|Rice extraction in the Central Valley using multi-temporal Landsat images
   > purely phenology-based rice map shows great misclassifications thus leading to a sharp decrease in the Kappa value (0.49). This comparison proves the effectiveness of this … results in this study show the possibility of extending this strategy to other regions for rice mapping.
05757|Estimation of Water Quality Parameters Using Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) & Geographic Information System (GIS) in Kulsi River Basin, Assam/Meghal
   > [no abstract]
05758|Transfer Learning-Based Quantification of Mitotic Activity and Its Prognostic and Molecular Associations in Lung Squamous Cell Carcinoma
   > marker of tumor proliferation, but computational mitosis recognition remains challenging because of cross-domain variability. We developed a transfer-learning framework to quantify mitotic activity in lung … in TCGA-LUSC. The findings support further investigation of computational mitotic phenotyping, but external multicenter validation and prospective clinical assessment are required before clini
05759|The most popular local and traditional food dishes in different regions of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and their cultural significance
   > aims to systematically identify and classify local and traditional dishes consumed across different regions of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA), with a focus on
05760|Wood Properties of 7-Year-Old Brachypterum microphyllum Planted in Malaysia
   > [no term] The utilisation potential of Brachypterum microphyllum, a fast-growing species introduced into plantation trials in Malaysia, remains relatively underexplored. Samples in this study were obtained from a Forest Research Institute Malaysia
05761|Artificial intelligence on MRI for molecular subtyping of diffuse gliomas: feature comparison, visualization, and correlation between radiomics and de
   > [no abstract]
05762|Training Strategies of Cnn for Land Cover Mapping with High Resolution Multi-Spectral Imagery in Senegal
   > training, (ii) model transfer, and (iii) transfer learning, and we evaluated model generalizability on test sets for two different regions in Senegal. The results showed that models rapidly reached a high
05763|Classification of contaminants from wheat using near-infrared hyperspectral imaging
   > [no abstract]
05764|Tighnari v2: Mitigating Label Noise and Distribution Shift in Multimodal Plant Distribution Prediction via Mixture of Experts and Weakly Supervised Le
   > Large-scale, cross-species plant distribution prediction plays a crucial role in biodiversity conservation, yet modeling … optimize the fusion of heterogeneous modalities. Furthermore, empirical analysis reveals significant geographic distribution shifts between PA training and test samples, and models trained by directly mixing PO and PA data tend to experience performance degradation due to labe
05765|Associations of 16-Year Population Dynamics in Range-Expanding Moths with Temperature and Years since Establishment
   > increased between years (growth rate > 1), although the population growth rate decreased significantly in association with years since colonisation. These findings highlight that, in … the warming climate enables range-expanding moths to realise their capacity for rapid distribution shifts and population growth. This may lead to fast and dramatic changes
05766|Quantitative dynamic monitoring of zebrafish using high-throughput optical coherence tomography and deep learning technique
   > [no term] Zebrafish larvae have been widely used as a model organism for high-throughput phenotypic screening due to high genetic similarity to humans, transparency and small size. For the phenotypic screening study,
05767|Arahan Lahan Insentif Pertanian Pangan Berkelanjutan Kabupaten Boyolali
   > [no abstract]
05768|A Cohesive Farm Monitoring and Wild Animal Warning Prototype System using IoT and Machine Learning
   > [no term] The advancements in IoT and Machine Learning have been a boon in solving day to day problems in the agricultural world. A robust monitoring and surveillance system to protect these
05769|Deep Learning Artificial Neural Networks for Detection of Fruit Maturity Stage in Wild Blueberries
   > [no abstract]
05770|Research on the function orientation of pumped-storage plant in China
   > our country, due to the insufficient acknowledge of plants’ function orientation in different regions. This paper studied the standard of classifying pumped-storage plants, by dividing
05771|EP730 - ECE_2742 - Relationship between inflammation and micronutrients status in a cohort of obese Romanian paediatric patients
   > [no term]  Paediatric obesity is increasingly recognized as a state of low-grade, chronic inflammation that may coexist with micronutrient disturbances, yet integrated data in Romanian children and adolescents remain scarce. This
05772|A multi agro-climatic reference dataset for irrigated and non-irrigated fields: France and Kazakhstan
   > development and validation of remote sensing–based irrigation products as well as the spatio-temporal transferability of deep learning models across regions, crop types, and climatic conditions.
05773|Cardiac amyloidosis and heart failure phenotypes: a prognostic study of systolic function markers
   > [no term]  Cardiac amyloidosis (CA), including light chain (AL), hereditary transthyretin (ATTRv), and wild-type transthyretin (ATTRwt), leads to heart failure (HF). Cardiologists use the ESC guidelines to classify patients with HF
05774|Live Session Zoom Registration Link
   > [no abstract]
05775|Transformer-based time-series remote sensing analysis of farmland targets: a review of methods and challenges
   > challenges, including scarce labeled time-series samples, high model complexity, spatio-temporal heterogeneity, and cross-region generalization. Finally, we discuss emerging directions—multimodal fusion, self-supervised pretraining and foundation models, model
05776|Changing dogma regarding mutation primacy in acute myelogenous leukemia : Protein expression supersedes mutation status
   > impact. Levels of 14 of 17 GFM-related proteins were prognostic in AML, independent of mutation status, suggesting that under or overexpression of these proteins are … recurrent protein expression signatures that were prognostic for OS and remission duration, independent of mutations or cytogenetic events. Importantly, the frequency of protein patterns with
05777|A Hybrid Deep Learning Framework for Wild Animal Detection and Intelligent Alerting using YOLOv11, Faster R-CNN, and MobileNetV3
   > [no term] However, human and wild conflict situations have now become one of the main problems in those areas where there is significant overlap between human habitations, agricultural lands, transportation routes and
05778|Variable species establishment in response to microhabitat indicates different likelihoods of climate‐driven range shifts
   > biota, soil moisture, temperature, and snow duration. Microhabitat suitability predictions suggest that distribution shifts are likely to be species‐specific, as different species have different suitability
05779|Fatty Acid Profile as an Indicator of Larval Host for Adult Drosophila suzukii
   > [no term] Simple Summary Spotted-wing drosophila, Drosophila suzukii, is an invasive pest of soft-skinned fruits. Adult female flies oviposit, or lay eggs, into fruits where the larvae develop, making infested fruit unmarketable.
05780|Vulnerability Assessment of a Sand-rich Alluvium; A DRASTIC Model Approach
   > [no abstract]
05781|A Manifold Learning Based Approach to Reveal the Functional Linkages across Multiple Gene Networks
   > For example, we showed that ManiNetCluster significantly better aligns orthologous genes from cross-species gene expression datasets than the linear state-of-art methods. As a demonstration, we
05782|Incorporating Local Adaptation Into Species Distribution Modeling of Paeonia mairei, an Endemic Plant to China
   > the importance of environmental variables in shaping their distribution, and to identify distribution shifts under different climate change scenarios. We also applied MaxEnt to all … and temperature seasonality) are important when shaping the distribution of P_West, and another two variables (mean diurnal range and mean temperature of the wettest quarter)
05783|Contrasting responses of gross primary productivity to precipitation events in a water-limited and a temperature-limited grassland ecosystem
   > [no abstract]
05784|Animal Detection in Farms Using OpenCV
   > [no term] : Agriculture is the most important sector of Indian Economy but the issue of damage to crops by wild animals has turned into an important social issue in current occasions.
05785|FSVT-SL: Few-Shot Vision Transformer with Synthetic Lesion Augmentation for Robust Plant Disease Diagnosis Under Field Conditions
   > based on deep learning fail in the real field conditions because of domain shifts and due to limited labeled data. The given work demonstrates a … focuses on utilizing the supervised contrastive pre-training, synthetic realistic lesion and lightweight domain adaptation with an aim of enhancing the generalization between lab-collected samples and actual farm settings. Experiments of PlantVillage, h
05786|Estimation of high-resolution soil moisture using machine learning, satellite observations and ground measurements. A case study in a hilly agricultur
   > Land Surface Temperature or backscatter, and on applying the downscaling framework to other regions with similar environmental and climatic conditions.</p> 
05787|Factorial Analysis of Out-of-Distribution Detection Performance in Plant Disease Diagnosis
   > automated plant disease diagnosis, enabling real-time detection under field conditions. However, models trained on fixed datasets remain vulnerable to out-of-distribution (OOD) inputs, such as unseen disease types, regional variations, and environmental noise. Misclassifying such unfamiliar cases with … plant disease diagnosis and lays the groundwork for more reliable deployment in real-world cond
05788|Comparison of Machine Learning Approaches in Prediction of Bone Mineral Density in Elderly Men
   > to identify the best machine learning model for BMD prediction at three different sites. We used genomic data of Osteoporotic Fractures in Men (MrOS) cohort
05789|Real-Time Segmentation of Unstructured Environments by Combining Domain Generalization and Attention Mechanisms
   > normalization and semantic-aware whitening (SAN–SAW) module into the main network to improve generalization ability beyond the visible domain. The model’s segmentation accuracy is improved through … a significant 14% increase mIoU in the invisible domain, indicating its strong generalization ability. With a parameter count of only 5.79M, the model achieves mAcc
05790|YOLO-family Comparison for Segmentation and Identification of Tomato Stems for Agronomic Tasks
   > in sequential images. A specialized dataset of sequential images was created, reflecting real-world conditions where tomato stems may appear multiple times across frames. The detection
05791|UTUAV: A Drone Dataset for Urban Traffic Analysis
   > leading to inflated performance metrics that do not reflect a model’s true generalization ability. Additionally, baseline results from recent state-of-the-art object detection models based on … challenges, including the difficulty of detecting small-scale objects, especially motorcycles, and limited generalization capabilities under altitude changes, a phenomenon commonly referred to as domain shi
05792|Research Productivity of Pepper from 2005-2014: A Bibliometric Analysis
   > [no abstract]
05793|A Computer Vision-Based Anti-Lodging Control System for Agricultural Machinery
   > and throttle powertrain to achieve lodged crop harvesting. Simulations and experiments from laboratory to field environments preliminarily verified the recognition accuracy and control performance of
05794|Real-time object tracking in the wild with Siamese network
   > [no abstract]
05795|From the ground up: Building predictions for how climate change will affect belowground mutualisms, floral traits, and bee behavior
   > [no term] Abstract Climate change affects species and their interactions, resulting in novel communities and modified ecosystem processes. Through shifts in phenology and distribution, climatic change can disrupt interactions, including those between
05796|Adapting the re-ID challenge for static sensors
   > [no term] The Grévy's zebra, an endangered species native to Kenya and southern Ethiopia, has been the target of sustained conservation efforts in recent years. Accurately monitoring Grévy's zebra populations is essential
05797|Woody plant encroachment drives habitat loss for a relict population of a large mammalian herbivore in South America
   > WPE) in relation to their availability. Although this species is considered a generalist herbivore. We tested variation in habitat use focusing on two spatial scales.
05798|Supporting Ultra-High-Resolution Digital Agriculture Tasks with Fully Synthetic Curriculum Learning
   > cost of attention with image size, foundational models in computer vision are pretrained on a large selection of low-resolution images, such as ImageNet-21k, ImageNet-1k, LAION-400M, etc. These models are then finetuned for downstream tasks using domain adaptation. However, for high-resolution tasks, the model must learn to adapt to
05799|Mapping Frost Damage in Coffee Plantations Using RPA (Remotely Piloted Aircraft)-Mounted LiDAR (Light Detection and Ranging) Structural Metrics
   > coffee plantations, aged 3, 4, and 10 years, affected by frosts in different years (2019 and 2021). Multivariate statistical analyses were performed using non-hierarchical clustering
05800|PSMamba: Progressive Self-supervised Vision Mamba for Plant Disease Recognition
   > [no term] Self-supervised Learning (SSL) has become a powerful paradigm for representation learning without manual annotations. However, most existing frameworks focus on global alignment and struggle to capture the hierarchical, multi-scale lesion
05801|Predictive value of the new renal response criteria in AL amyloidosis treated with high dose melphalan and stem cell transplantation
   > [no term] ences in their corresponding clinical phenotypes. One of the major determinants of protein secondary structure is helical content. Accordingly, we used a statistical approximation algorithm (AGADIR) to calculate helix propensity
05802|Mango Leaf Health Classification for Drone Images Using Deep Learning in Cloud
   > of Gujarat in India. However, mango production in Gujarat, as in many other regions, is severely affected by various leaf diseases that can substantially reduce … process generated a balanced dataset of 6,988 images. Furthermore, the MobileNetV2 architecture trained on this dataset achieved higher classification accuracy, signifying the importance of augmentation
05803|Depth Specific Estimation of Soil Properties using vis-NIR Spectroscopy
   > community. This thesis studied various aspects of spectroscopy for soil characterization in laboratory to field conditions, including 1) optimization of preprocessing and modelling algorithms; 2) … best to predict soil properties from dry ground samples. Direct Standardization outperformed External Parameter Orthogonalisation for transforming field wet spectral data. Finally, spectroscopy was used
05804|Preserving nature for the benefit of all sentient individuals
   > [no term] I agree with Treves et al.’s proposal for a preservation ethics based on the principle that nonhuman well-being is a matter of justice and compassion. In this commentary, I advance
05805|BAYANŞİRƏ SÜFRƏ ÜZÜM SORTUNUN AMPELODİSKRİPTOR VƏ BİOMORFOLOJİ  XÜSUSİYYƏTLƏRİNİN TƏDQİQİ
   > [no term] The purpose of the research: Recently, along with other valuable agricultural crops, the creation of a database of grape genotypes has become more relevant. Collecting information about traits and characteristics
05806|Classification and management of community forests in Indian Eastern Himalayas: implications on ecosystem services, conservation and livelihoods
   > [no term] IntroductionEvidence is mounting that traditional knowledge can play a critical role in shaping the biodiversity conservation strategies and maintaining ecosystem services. This study was conducted with Adi community of Arunachal
05807|A phenological object-based approach for rice crop classification using time-series Sentinel-1 Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) data in Taiwan
   > phenology could be potentially applied at a larger scale in Taiwan and transferable to other regions for updating rice crop maps on a timely and frequent basis.
05808|Five newly recorded species of Crambidae (Lepidoptera, Pyraloidea) from Xizang
   > paper described the morphological characteristics of these five adult insects and their external genitalia in detail, provided clear color pictures of the adult insects and their external genitalia, and sorted out the distribution at home and abroad. All the
05809|Interoperability Analysis of Tomato Fruit Detection Models for Images Taken at Different Facilities, Cultivation Methods, and Times of the Day
   > 0.973 in the same greenhouse and a stable performance of 0.962 in another greenhouse. The imaging approach controlled the lighting conditions, effectively eliminating the domain-shift … diversity or inferring plant appearance images but not on the training dataset decreased the average accuracy to approximately 0.80, revealing the need for new approaches
05810|Economic and biological classification of subtropic fruit crops collection in Khorol botanical garden
   > [no term] The analysis of the scientific sources on the definition of economic and biological features of fruit cultures is carried out. The different opinions of scientists on the division of the
05811|Monitoring of arsenic uptake in Pteris vittata using short-wave infrared spectroscopy during multi-scale field trial.
   > [no term] In this study an innovative multi-analytical approach to monitor arsenic (As) accumulation in Pteris vittata, using hyperspectral imaging (HSI) in the short-wave infrared range (SWIR: 1000-2500 nm), micro-X-ray fluorescence (micro-XRF)
05812|Real-Time Multi-Sensory Animal Intrusion Prevention in Crop Fields Using CNN and ESP32
   > [no term] Wild animals' damage to crops is a significant challenge in agriculture that leads to considerable financial losses. Most conventional methods of deterrence using fences, scarecrows, and noise-makers have been found
05813|Assessment of the severity and incidence of Septoria tritici blotch (Zymoseptoria tritici) of wheat in Northwestern Ethiopia
   > abiotic stresses. Septoria leaf blotch is one of the biotic stresses that decreases production and grain quality. A field survey was conducted in twenty-four districts … models were used to figure out associations of the disease intensity with independent variables. The highest mean disease incidence and severity were 90.7 and 46.67%.
05814|Accuracy of functional tests to identify frail community elderly
   > the accuracy of functional tests in identifying frail older adults in two different regions. Methods: Observational, descriptive and cross-sectional study with the participation of 120 … Conclusion: The TUG was capable of identifying frail older adults of two different regions, even when two different diagnostic methods of frailty were applied, standing
05815|A Class-Aware Unsupervised Domain Adaptation Framework for Cross-Continental Crop Classification with Sentinel-2 Time Series
   > crucial for global food security, yet its performance is often hindered by domain shift when models trained in one region are applied to another. This is particularly challenging in cross-continental scenarios where variations in climate, soil, … To address this, we propose PLCM (PSAE-LTAE + Class-aware MMD), an unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) framework for crop classification using Sentinel-
05816|Isolation and Classification of Fungal Pathogens of Salvia Rosemary in Different Regions of Al Jabal Al Akhdar
   > [no term] Rosemary trees are considered one of the most important natural flora in Libya, which represents the total vegetation cover prevailing in the natural forests of the Green Mountain region, which
05817|Discrimination of Mentha species grown in different geographical areas of Algeria using 1H-NMR-based metabolomics.
   > and their ecotypes. Samples of the 3 species were collected in seven different locations in Algeria, with the aim to establish a quality control protocol … of the Mentha species was impacted by the abiotic factors of the different regions.
05818|A MALDI-MS biotyping-like method to address honey bee health status through computational modelling
   > [no term] Among pollinator insects, bees undoubtedly account for the most important species. They play a critical role in boosting reproduction of wild and commercial plants and therefore contribute to the maintenance
05819|STVAE: Skip connection driven Two-stream property fusion Variational AutoEncoder for cross-region wastewater treatment plant semantic segmentation
   > [no abstract]
05820|Title : Ecological and methodological drivers of species ’ distribution and phenology responses to climate change Running head : Species ’ responses t
   > [no abstract]
05821|MULTI-TEMPORAL MULTI-MODAL PREDICTIVE MODELLING OF PLANT PHENOTYPES
   > [no abstract]
05822|Methodological advances to improve the cost-effectiveness of monitoring for mycotoxins in cereal grains
   > [no abstract]
05823|1199. Phylogenomic analysis of Campylobacter jejuni isolated from gastroenteritis cases in Michigan
   > [no term] Abstract Background C. jejuni is the leading cause of bacterial gastroenteritis worldwide. It has been classified as a serious antibiotic resistant threat, causing 13,000 hospitalizations and 120 deaths annually. Our
05824|Change Detection in Geo Cover Area through Satellite Images
   > [no abstract]
05825|GS-YOLO: Lightweight Weed Detection via a Shared Convolutional Detection Head
   > per second, representing a 30.6 percent improvement over the YOLOv11n baseline. Finally, cross-domain generalization experiments on the CropWeed dataset confirm the robustness and architectural efficiency of
05826|The Development of a Fungicide Tolerance Phenotyping Assay Utilizing Digital Microscopy with the Obligate Biotroph,  Erysiphe necator
   > [no term] Grape powdery mildew (Erysiphe necator) poses a significant challenge to vineyards that is primarily managed through fungicide applications. However, the emergence of fungicide-tolerant populations necessitates the development of rapid phenotyping
05827|Performance Analysis of YOLO Models for Strawberry Ripeness Detection in Challenging Environments
   > conditions. A comprehensive dataset was prepared, incorporating diverse environmental challenges to simulate real-world conditions. The YOLOv8 model was trained and validated on each dataset, with … in detection accuracy across conditions, highlighting the model’s sensitivity to image quality degradation, particularly in blurry and noisy scenarios. Despite struggling in blurry and noisy
05828|Regressive and Spatio-Temporal Accessibility of Variability in Solar Energy on a Short Scale Measurement in the Southern and Mid Region of Mozambique
   > the clear sky index in the region, indicating its potential applicability in other regions of interest.
05829|Lightweight Multi‐Occlusion Pear Detection via Multi‐Auxiliary Domain Transfer Learning for Robotic Harvesting
   > design and detection accuracy, which restricts deployment on resource‐constrained robotic platforms; a domain shift issue in transfer learning, resulting in long training times and wasted … the proposed MADTL strategy introduces apple and orange datasets to bridge the source–target domain gap, significantly accelerating convergence. Benchmarked against YOLOv8s, our detector reduces model
05830|Climate Services for Organic Fruit Production in Valencia Region: Early Frost Forecasting
   > also show the applicability of the model by extrapolating it to a new region. This development is carried out within the framework of H2020 CYBELE
05831|Adaptive Vision Language Prompt Optimization for Explainable Plant Disease Diagnosis
   > understanding, but they are often based on fixed textual prompts, with limited domain adaptation and interpretability. The proposed framework combines a Vision Transformer backbone with
05832|Augmented Insights: A Qualified Evaluation of Deep Learning Representations for Enhancing Banana Leaf Spot Disease Detection
   > datasets, giving us a normal angle on how they carry out below real-world conditions.
05833|CHEMOTAXONOMIC STUDY OF SUMATRAN WILD MANGOES (Mangifera spp.) BASED ON LIQUID CHROMATOGRAPHY MASS-
   > [no abstract]
05834|Lettuce Watch: Image-Driven Plant Condition Analysis Using CNN
   > [no term] Modern agricultural practices have embraced a variety of cultivation methods, and one such method is Hydroponics. Hydroponics offers a diverse range of applicable plant types, including lettuce. Achieving desirable outcomes
05835|Cauliflower leaf diseases: A computer vision dataset for smart agriculture
   > stages. This dataset consists of 2,661 images. The pictures were captured at different locations in Bangladesh, under different weather conditions, dates, temperatures, and with different … used several steps to process the dataset, making sure it would reflect real-world conditions and be ready for training. The images were resized to a
05836|Insertion of Transgene arIs 92 Promotes Progressive Sterility in C . elegans Strain GS 3582 By
   > [no abstract]
05837|Current Approaches to Genome Sequencing in Sugar Beet (Beta Vulgaris) and Its Wild Relatives
   > to transfer the tolerance and resistance traits, which are the traits found in the wild relatives of the plant, to the cultivars, these traits must
05838|Wild or cultivated? a study of Vitis sylvestris in natura in Slovakia and implications for archaeology and archaeobotany (morphometric approach)
   > [no abstract]
05839|Antioxidant, antibacterial, and anticancer properties of Haloxylon salicornicum extracted by microwave-assisted extraction
   > [no term] Background The wild plant Haloxylon salicornicum is a desert shrub species that is present in North America and some Middle Eastern countries and is used as a source of vegetation.
05840|Abstract 4138955: Artificial intelligence-guided screening of rheumatic heart disease from single-view two-dimensional echocardiography
   > adapted for point-of-care ultrasonography (POCUS) in school-aged children. Methods: We employed a cross-domain transfer learning approach, in which a 3D convolutional neural network (CNN) was … Brazil (14 [1.2%] with stage ≥B RHD) as well as in an external pediatric screening set in Uganda consisting of 249 videos from 96 studies
05841|Comparative Analysis of Multimodal Data Fusion Techniques for Automated Mental Health Monitoring
   > to 2025. Comparing cross-modal attention fusion techniques early, late, and hybrid, quantifying cross-dataset generalization capabilities for DAIC-WOZ, D-Vlog, LMVD, and BlackDog challenges, concentrating on behavioral biomarkers … main aspects of data extraction and classification are always expressed analytically. While generalization gaps of 15% to 22% across datasets remain a hurdle for clinic
05842|HRDA: Context-Aware High-Resolution Domain-Adaptive Semantic Segmentation
   > Unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) aims to adapt a model trained on the source domain (e.g. synthetic data) to the target domain (e.g. real-world data) without requiring further annotations on the target domain. This work focuses on UDA for semantic segmentation as real-world pixel-wise
05843|An Efficient and Robust Few-Shot Information Fusion for Paddy Disease Detection
   > the corresponding shot settings while also achieving superior $F1$ -score, robustness, and cross-domain generalization performance. Additional ablation and efficiency analyses confirm the effectiveness of the proposed
05844|Automatic plant disease diagnosis using mobile capture devices, applied on a wheat use case
   > [no term] Automatic Plant disease diagnosis for early disease symptoms.Novel image processing algorithm in combination with machine learning inference methods.A performance testing on wheat was done with 7 mobile devices over 3
05845|CL-GIE v4.0: Blockchain-Anchored Cross-Layer Genomic Integrity With Hierarchical Bloom–Merkle Trees for Ethics-Aware, Explainable Personalized Gene Ed
   > [no term] Personalized gene editing demands verifiable integrity, governance-aware decisioning, and forensics-grade auditability across heterogeneous evidence sources (CRISPR logs, phenotype outcomes, and ledger records). We present CL-GIE v4.0, a cross-layer genomic integrity
05846|On Bayesian Methods in Network Regression
   > [no abstract]
05847|Climate Change-Driven Shifts in Elevation and Ecophysiological Traits of Himalayan Plants during the Past Century
   > [no abstract]
05848|Analysis of the distribution pattern of Kaboa (Aegiceras corniculatum) in Cipalawah Beach
   > [no term] Kaboa (Aegiceras corniculatum) is a plant that lives around mangroves where the distribution pattern varies. Variations in the distribution are spread out or clustered. The study was conducted at Cipalawah
05849|Intra- and Interspecies Variability of Single-Cell Innate Fluorescence Signature of Microbial Cell
   > [no term] A cell’s innate fluorescence signature is an assemblage of fluorescence signals emitted by diverse biomolecules within a cell. It is known that the innate fluoresce signature reflects various cellular properties
05850|A Comparative Exploration of Time Series Models for Wild Fire Prediction
   > [no term] Wildfires pose a great threat to human safety and property arising from both natural and human causes. According to a technical assessment by the Forest Survey of India more than
05851|Abstract 4705: Single cell derived 3D organoids recapitulate the tumorigenic features of glioblastoma
   > [no term] In recent years, three-dimensional (3D) models of human brain derived from pluripotent embryonic and iPS cells have emerged as brain organoids, providing established models for brain development and genetic engineering.
05852|VTOS: Learning to Orchestrate Vision Tools by Co-Searching Solutions and Observers
   > solution pipeline, making them brittle under dense objects, occlusion, small targets, and domain shift. We introduce VTOS (Vision Tools Orchestration Search), a framework for adaptive … stress different orchestration challenges including threshold calibration, NMS, slicing, mask refinement, and domain generalization. Across both tasks, VTOS outperforms static tool pipelines and agentic visual-prog
05853|Domain Adaptation Techniques for Plant Disease Classification: Bridging the Gap between Laboratory and Field Conditions
   > laboratory datasets are applied to real-world field images, their accuracy tends to decrease. In our case, the model, which reached 98.9% for PlantVillage, dropped to just 41.9% for field-collected PlantDoc images, a gap that severely limits
05854|Unpacking ancient agricultural systems using chemotaxonomy to classify Poaceae pollen from Nar Gölü, Cappadocia, Türkiye
   > pollen chemical traits measured by Fourier-transform infrared (FTIR) microspectroscopy. Predictive classifier models trained on the pollen-derived chemotaxonomic data of 22 modern grass taxa yielded an
05855|BackdoorIndicator: Leveraging OOD Data for Proactive Backdoor Detection in Federated Learning
   > which has the server inject indicator tasks into the global model leveraging out-of-distribution (OOD) data, and then utilizing the fact that any backdoor samples are
05856|Multipath Deep Shallow Convolutional Networks for Large Scale Plant Species Identification in Wild Image
   > [no term] One out of five plants are threatened as evident from the IUCN Red List data. Such high rates of loss in plant species triggered to protect and conserve biodiversity. It
05857|Evaluation of the effectiveness of the main fungicides used against Mycosphaerella fijiensis of banana plantations in Côte d’Ivoire
   > [no term] Black Sigatoka, caused by Mycosphaerella fijiensis Morelet (Pseudocercospora fijiensis [Morelet] Deighton), is one of the most devastating diseases of banana. In commercial banana cropping systems, Black Sigatoka is mainly managed
05858|HDM-Stereo: A Plug-and-Play Framework for Stereo Matching via Hierarchical Dynamic Matching
   > networks typically construct cost volumes within a predefined disparity range, constraining their cross-dataset generalization and large disparity handling capabilities. To address these challenges, we propose HDM-Stereo, … disparity distribution samples through random cropping and translation to enhance the network’s generalization capability. When integrated with five representative networks, HD
05859|Multimodal Satellite-Field Data Integration for Scalable Crop-Type Mapping With Limited Labels
   > Satellite image time series (SITS) require costly labeled data and struggle to generalize to new regions. To address this limitation, this article presents a method that leverages … with ground-level field images. The pseudo-labeled data achieves performance comparable with models trained on the complete labeled dataset, while substantially reducing the need for extensive
05860|Biomass burning spatiotemporal variations over South and Southeast Asia.
   > the dramatic land cover change induced by the local swidden agriculture. Unlike other regions, BB in equatorial SEA primarily occurred in the second half of
05861|Classification of java tea (Orthosiphon aristatus) quality using FTIR spectroscopy and chemometrics
   > different cultivating area. FTIR spectra of ethanolic extracts were collected from five different regions of origin of java tea. Prior to chemometrics evaluation, spectra were … Analysis (PLSDA) was applied to the pre-processed data. The approach produced an external validation success rate of 100%. This study shows that FTIR analysis and
05862|A pilot study to classify salt treated poplar plants using machine learning algorithms
   > [no term] In recent times, salinity has emerged as a significant abiotic stress affecting plant survival in an ecosystem. In the experimental setup, response to salinity was investigated in Populus alba L.
05863|Short-Utterance Embedding Enhancement Method Based on Time Series Forecasting Technique for Text-Independent Speaker Verification
   > a group of long-utterance embeddings. Experimental results on the VoxCeleb and Speakers in the Wild datasets show that our method improves the text-independent speaker verification performance under short utterance condition.
05864|Digital soil mapping of soil organic carbon in flat areas based on multi-temporal remote sensing phenological variables.
   > [no abstract]
05865|Future Spatial Prediction of Invasive Plant Merremia peltata in Indonesia
   > model has good performance. The predictive future distribution map shows that its distribution shifts to other regions in 2070 compared to the predictive current distribution. The predictive current
05866|Characterizing the Role of Magnetic Cues Underlying Spatial Behavior
   > [no abstract]
05867|Abstract 422: Aurora kinase A inhibition overcome adaptive resistance to KRAS G12C inhibitor by replication stress-induced genomic instability and mit
   > [no term] Cancer cells develop drug-tolerant states, enabling them to evade therapies. In response to KRAS G12C inhibitors (G12Ci), non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells harboring KRAS mutations sustain a drug-tolerant phenotype
05868|Detection of vanilla species by employing image processing approach
   > [no term] Abstract Image analysis approach is adopted for identifying two species of vanilla; a popular spice yielding orchid. Vanilla species namely Vanilla planifolia (cultivated species) and Vanilla andamanica (wild species) were
05869|Cross-Fruit Disease Image Generation using CycleGAN: From Pomegranate to Apple
   > [no abstract]
05870|Road verge extent and habitat composition across Great Britain
   > and further developed by others, for example to assess road verges across other regions, and to assess verge habitat composition in greater detail.
05871|Knowledge Graph–Guided Domain Generalization for Computational Phenotyping: A Tutorial
   > routine clinical data.This tutorial presents a knowledge graph (KG)–guided framework for cross-data generalization of phenotype representations under multimodal heterogeneity. We introduce a hybrid patient– knowledge … learned representations to shared biomedical entities and relations, and we discuss label-free domain adaptation strategies for target settings where disease-specific labels are una
05872|Modelling the establishment, spread and distribution shifts of pests
   > [no term] Abstract During the last century increasing human trade networks have interacted with other global changes – such as land use and climate change – to accelerate the range expansion of
05873|Presence of Zea luxurians (Durieu and Ascherson) Bird in Southern Brazil: Implications for the Conservation of Wild Relatives of Maize
   > [no term] Records of the occurrence of wild relatives of maize in South American lowlands are unprecedented, especially in sympatric coexistence with landraces. This fact is relevant, because regions of occurrence of
05874|MRC-Net: a reliable plant disease classification framework with multi-frequency state-space enhancement and conformal prediction
   > MF-SSFE module to jointly model low-frequency leaf structures, high-frequency lesion textures, and cross-region state-space contexts, thereby enhancing disease-related evidence in complex scenarios. Meanwhile, the CARP
05875|Smart Agriculture System Using Internet of Things (IoT) and Machine Learning
   > changing climatic conditions as India has different weather & soil conditions in different regions. The introduction of IoT and machine learning-based smart agriculture aims to
05876|Testing emerging tools for the early detection of invasive alien species: the CamAlien and a cross-realm European alert system
   > detection and monitoring of IAS are currently being developed and evaluated at different locations in Europe. Here, we focus on two specific systems: the CamAlien
05877|Neuro-Evolutionary Transfer Learning Through Structural Adaptation
   > [no abstract]
05878|An Efficient ADA Boost and CNN Hybrid Model for Weed Detection and Removal
   > [no abstract]
05879|Phenotypic variability for early drought stress resistance in tetraploid wheat accessions correlates with terminal drought performance
   > [no term] Durum wheat (Triticum durum Desf.) is a fundamental staple food for the countries of the Mediterranean basin. Climate change is predicted to cause a trend of increasing drought severity in
05880|Domain Generalisation for Object Detection
   > Domain generalisation aims to promote the learning of domain-invariant features while suppressing domain-specific features, so that a model can generalise better to previously unseen target domains. An approach to domain generalisation for object detection is proposed, the first such approach applicable to … the image level. This allows us to fully address both components of domain shift, i.e. cov
05881|Beginners guide to bioinformatics for high throughput sequencing
   > [no abstract]
05882|Intermediate Domain Prototype Contrastive Adaptation for Spartina alterniflora Segmentation Using Multitemporal Remote Sensing Images
   > from different time periods poses a challenge. Fortunately, the utilization of unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) techniques helps in addressing such issues and enables the exploration … thereby reducing the loss of information from patches. Experimental results on two cross-year multispectral datasets demonstrate that the proposed IDPNet outperforms several state-of-the-art UDA methods.
05883|Phylogenetic relationships versus environmental impacts on the distribution and traits of Laureae (Lauraceae) species within and outside karst tianken
   > likened to an isolated island because of its limited contact with the external environment. This distinctive landscape potentially shapes the evolution and distribution of the
05884|Global Upscaling of the MODIS Land Cover with Google Earth Engine and Landsat Data
   > such as the MODIS (MOD12) land cover. After the experimental analysis for different regions, we conclude that the method allows to successfully learn the MODIS
05885|Development of a deep learning-based method for estimating surface soil moisture at high spatial resolution from Sentinel-1 satellite data
   > (Danish Hydrological Observatory). The unique advantage of the developed model is its transferability across climate zones, which has been historically absent in many prior models.
05886|Sesquiterpene Lactone Composition of Wild and Cultivated Sunflowers and Biological Activity against an Insect Pest.
   > [no abstract]
05887|Discrimination of Dioscorea species (Chinese yam) using FT-IR integrated with chemometric approach.
   > species. A total of 107 Dioscorea spp. tuber samples were collected from different locations in China. Principal Component Analysis (PCA), PCA-Class, and Orthogonal Partial Least
05888|A UAV Wheat Fusarium Head Blight Detection Method Integrating EMD Histogram Matching and Adversarial Domain Adaptation
   > [no abstract]
05889|A Stacking Ensemble Learning Model for Rainfall Prediction based on Indian Climate
   > flexible and reasonable framework for making predictions that can be used in other regions.
05890|The boreal–temperate forest ecotone response to climate change
   > [no abstract]
05891|A power-aware graph domain adaptation framework for variable-power fault detection of self-powered neutron detectors in nuclear power plants
   > [no abstract]
05892|Machine Learning Based Soil-Type Classification
   > a given soil type if the soil is classified according to the external feature of the soil. In this study, we used machine learning techniques … different soil types based on their feature. Images were collected from 6 different sites, i.e., Dejen, Lumamie (Yetinora and Binjagena), Gozamn, Machakel, and Debre Elias.
05893|Chapter 2 Types of Noodles : A Brief Description
   > [no abstract]
05894|Rethinking Conservation and Restoration Strategies of Endangered and Key Medicinal Clavicarpa Plants in Yunnan‐Kweichow Plateau's Karst Areas Under Cl
   > a particular focus on the influence of climate variables in predicting potential distribution shifts and assessing extinction risks under the optimistic SSP1‐2.6 and the pessimistic
05895|Clasificación de Solanum licopersicum y parientes silvestres mediante técnicas de aprendizaje automático partiendo de datos genéticos.
   > [no abstract]
05896|Count Anything
   > remains fragmented across domain-specific datasets and task formulations, despite rapid progress in generalist vision models. Existing counting models are often tailored to scenarios such as crowds, vehicles, cells, crops, or remote-sensing objects, and thus struggle to generalize across categories, visual domains, object scales, and density distributions. In this paper, … with interpretable spati
05897|Forecasting impacts of Agricultural Production on Global Maize Price
   > [no abstract]
05898|Boosting Zero-Shot Generalization Performance of Constructive NCO Approaches for Large-Scale TSP
   > train neural models on large-scale traveling salesman problem (TSP) instances, and zero-shot generalization becomes a promising way. However, due to distribution shift, existing NCO approaches suffer from significantly deteriorated solution quality on large-scale … Additionally, we introduce a cropping operation to avoid duplicate search. Using LEHD pre-trained on TSP-100 instances as the backbone
05899|A comprehensive survey on unmanned aerial vehicle-based single object tracking
   > [no abstract]
05900|Evaluating Mechanically-caused Crop Damage Using Two Simple UAV-based Assessment Techniques
   > [no term] Abstract. The increasing frequency of hydrometeorological extremes, such as torrential rainfall, strong winds, and hailstorms, often causes widespread mechanical damage to crops. This study evaluates the potential of cost-effective unmanned
05901|Predicting Spatial Habitat Changes of Haftad-Gholleh Protected Area in Markazi Province, Iran
   > dissection indicators. The habitat evaluation showed that 4.5% of the habitat was decreased in 2016, as compared to 1996. With the continuation of this trend,
05902|Multimodal and Vision Language Few Shot Learning: A Survey
   > concepts, training methodologies, and empirical trade-offs, encompassing robustness in the face of distribution shifts, control over hallucinations, as well as capabilities in temporal and three-dimensional … foundation, we integrate overarching design patterns and emphasize the interplay between pre-trained generalization, efficient adaptation, and certified robustness in practical applications. 
05903|Comparison of Yield, Nutrient Content and Antibacterial Activities of Wild and Cultivated Isolates of Pleurotus djamor
   > [no term] Background: Pleurotus species constitutes one of the choicest edible mushrooms, it is commonly known as “Oyster Mushroom” and in India it is commonly called as “Dhingri. It has important medicinal,
05904|Orchids Classification Using Spatial Transformer Network with Adaptive Scaling
   > [no abstract]
05905|Determining the Optimal Planting Time for Agricultural Crops in Northern Kazakhstan
   > tested against 21 years of official Shortandy district wheat yields (2004-2024) under leave-one-year-out crossvalidation, giving $\mathrm{R}^{2}=0.289$ (Pearson $\mathrm{r}=0.546, \mathrm{p}=0.010$) with no real yield data seen
05906|Leaf Counting Without Annotations Using Adversarial Unsupervised Domain Adaptation
   > unlabelled images. Our method falls in the broad machine learning problem of domain adaptation, where our aim is to reduce the difference between the source … to preserve confidentiality. Our major contribution is a model that reduces the domain shift using an unsupervised adversarial adaptation mechanism on statistics of the training
05907|Innovative Tomato Rot Detection: A Deep Learning Approach using EfficientNet-B0 for Farming Efficiency
   > existing automated approaches often require high computational resources and lack robustness under real-world conditions such as varying lighting, occlusion, and background noise. This paper presents
05908|Effect of germination on the structures and physicochemical properties of starches from brown rice, oat, sorghum, and millet.
   > [no abstract]
05909|Domain-Adapted Diffusion for Synthetic Data Augmentation in UAV Small Object Detection
   > for synthetic data augmentation, yet VA V imagery still suffers from significant domain shift compared to general image datasets used to pre-train these models: small
05910|Unsupervised Domain Adaptation for Weed Segmentation Using Greedy Pseudo-labelling
   > due to varied agricultural contexts. To address this, we propose an unsupervised domain adaptation (DA) framework leveraging pseudo-labelling. Our method involves co-training labelled source data … years with diverse plant stages. Particularly in challenging conditions for plants across different years with varied plant stages, the proposed method outperforms existing literature that
05911|Ecological significance of floristic composition and life forms of Riyadh region, Central Saudi Arabia
   > adaptation to hyper-arid conditions of the region. Work involved field surveys of different locations in Riyadh region where plant specimens were collected and identified. Collected
05912|Prioritizing emerging organic pollutants in rivers of Thailand using suspect screening analysis with high-resolution mass spectrometry.
   > substances in aquatic environments. In this study, four river water samples from different regions of Thailand were analyzed using a suspect screening approach based on
05913|White-Tailed Eagle in the Republic of Tatarstan
   > displacement of breeding territories, and the number of breeding pairs varied in different years on some monitoring plots, even in protected areas, such as Volga-Kama … migrations. Of the birds tracked during the first autumn migration, three (21.4%) dropped out of study, two of them died at a distance of 610,
05914|SEBARAN POPULASI PULAI (ALSTONIA SCHOLARIS) DI KAWASAN HUTAN KOTA GUNUNG SARI SINGKAWANG
   > [no abstract]
05915|From images in the wild to video-informed image classification
   > describes experiments applying state-of-the-art object classifiers toward a unique set of ‘images in the wild’ with high visual complexity collected on the island of Bali. The text describes differences between actual images in the wild and images from Imagenet, and then discusses a novel approach … in order to improve classification results on video sourced images of plants in the wild.
05916|Multi-Staged Transfer Learning with Progressive Fine-Tuning for Citrus Fruit Disease Classification
   > selectively unfreezing different backbones across successive training stages. This strategy enables controlled domain adaptation while maintaining training stability and minimizing overfitting. Experimental results demonstrate a … Confusion matrix analysis confirms low and symmetrically distributed misclassification errors, indicating strong generalization on unseen data. The findings validate the
05917|Distribution, Conservation Status and Effects of Threats on Relative Abundance of Warburgia ugandensis Tree Species. A Case Study of Katimok Forest Re
   > [no term] Forest ecosystems provide livelihood opportunities such as medicines, fuelwood, timber, cash income and a reliable supply of groundwater. However, encroachment of forests by human settlement adjacent to conservation areas is
05918|Distribution and habitat mapping of key fauna species in other land use for biodiversity offset
   > (BAP) for APLs. The APLs are geographically dispersed nationwide to address diverse external needs beyond forestry. Some APLs are situated on Mount Tenggamus in Lampung … and distribution mapping using Weighted Linear Combination (WLC). The results showed that degraded and deforested ecosystems dominated both APLs. Some key species are confined to
05919|Medicinal Herbs Identification in the wild by using CNN
   > [no term] Many rural communities have a strong beliefin plant diversity. They collect useful plants and herbs anduse them with indigenous knowledge and customs. One sucholdest system that results in the use
05920|Abstracts from the 2022 Annual Scienti ﬁ c Meeting of the British and Irish Hypertension Society (BIHS) The MTHFR C677T polymorphism is associated wit
   > [no abstract]
05921|Telomere Biology Gene Mutation and Transplant Outcome in Patients with Dyskeratosis Congenita
   > [no abstract]
05922|Bridging the camera gap: evaluating AI-based cross-sensor domain shift in weed detection on the amiga robotic platform
   > but also on the imaging sensor used at deployment. This paper examines cross-sensor domain shift for weed detection on the Amiga robotic platform by training detectors … using mAP50, mAP50–95, precision, recall, and inference latency. The results demonstrate substantial degradation under cross-sensor shift, with the largest losses observed in the infrared domain. Multi-class models
05923|Improved YOLOv11n-Based Small Object Detection Algorithm from UAV Perspective
   > thereby enhancing the model’s ability to distinguish and accurately detect targets in different regions. Experimental results on the VisDrone2019 dataset demonstrate that the improved YOLOv11n
05924|Advancing Terrain Recognition via High-Resolution Satellite Imagery and Deep Learning Models
   > EfficientNetV2S. The data pre- processing steps included various operations to enhance model generalization through image augmentation and normalization and resizing methods. The research utilized TensorFlow … investigations will optimize edge device deployment while expanding terrain recognition applications to real-world conditions.
05925|Cotton Crop Mapping in Western Bahia Using RNN and Transformer Models on Planet NICFI Spectrotemporal Time Series
   > models for large-scale crop monitoring and demonstrate the potential for adaptation to other regions and agricultural systems.
05926|Comprehensive Bulk and Single Cell Transcriptomic Characterization of SF3B1 Mutation Reveals Its Pleiotropic Effects in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
   > [no abstract]
05927|Robust Out-of-distribution Detection in Orchard Environments via Fusion of Higher-order Statistics
   > [no abstract]
05928|AttentionFusionNet: Residual Attention CNN for Multi-Disease Leaf Recognition Across Diverse Environments
   > precise early detection for sustainable agriculture. Traditional deep learning models struggle in real-world conditions due to background noise and poor feature localization. This study proposes
05929|Enhancing Wind Energy Forecasting for Cost Efficiency in Hybrid Diesel and Solar Power Plants Using Artificial Neural Networks and Meteoblue Weather D
   > wind power to reduce the load on diesel plants. The ANN model, trained on historical weather data, achieved high predictive accuracy with an R2 value … correlation between predicted and actual wind speeds, outperforming similar models used in other regions like Ethiopia and Chile. The findings highlight the ANN model's effectiveness
05930|Distribution of mrk genes among uropathogenic Klebsiella pneumoniae
   > [no abstract]
05931|Recognition of the geographical origin and sex of Patagonian forests of Araucaria araucana through the analysis of leaves by FT-NIR: A methodological 
   > [no abstract]
05932|Forecasting Groundwater Depletion in Quetta Sub-Basin using Remote Sensing Data: Deep Learning Approach
   > size but the smallest by population; the situation is worse than in other regions of the country because groundwater level (GWL) is declining at a
05933|An Eye on Clinical BERT: Investigating Language Model Generalization for Diabetic Eye Disease Phenotyping
   > clinical domains. Across multiple training paradigms, we find that BERT language models pretrained on out-of-distribution clinical data offer no significant improvement over BERT language models pretrained on non-clinical data for our domain. Our study tempers recent claims that language models pretrained on clinical data are necessary for clinical NLP tasks and highlights the
05934|ORAD: a new framework of offline Reinforcement Learning with Q-value regularization
   > [no abstract]
05935|Controversies in Midday Water Potential Regulation and Stomatal Behavior Might Result From the Environment, Genotype, and/or Rootstock: Evidence From 
   > and Carménère under a non-lethal water deficit progression from veraison from two different locations, the Cachapoal Valley (CV) and Maipo Valley (MV), in central Chile
05936|Solar-powered motion sensor for farm monitoring and surveillance: a solar-powered assisted process
   > distinguishing rodents from other detected objects. The solar-powered system operates continuously which decreases human intervention needs and enhances farm surveillance capabilities. The model demonstrates its … to defend crops from rodent damage and enhance farm resistance against land degradation threats. Conclusion The proposed system demonstrates progress in uniting renewable energy systems
05937|Dynamic Discard Deep Learning for Rice Yield Prediction on Mixed-Accuracy Datasets
   > set, DDL achieved the best R2 performance while exhibiting lower run-to-run variance. Cross-crop transfer on wheat and maize further shows when dynamic discard helps. Code
05938|PROBING THE PLANT CELL WALL WITH HERBICIDES: A CHEMICAL GENETICS APPROACH
   > [no abstract]
05939|Improving Out-of-Distribution Robustness for Wheat Head Detection: A Lightweight Modified YOLOv13 Approach
   > head detection scenarios. However, when applied to cross-distribution environments, their performance often degrades significantly. To investigate this issue, this paper adopts the official division of … YOLOv13 as the baseline, we systematically explore effective approaches to enhance cross-distribution generalization performance in wheat head detection. Specifically, we propose two lightweight m
05940|Failure Detection for Industrial Wireless Links via Interoperable Data Fusion
   > stronger predictors of wireless failures than radio metrics. These findings demonstrate that cross-domain data interoperability is essential for robust failure detection in industrial wireless deployments.
05941|Predicting single cell genotypes from single cell expression profiles in AML using deep learning
   > sequencing data from 6 AML patients and 4 healthy individuals. In the independent test sets, the binary classification model achieved an accuracy of 98% while
05942|Protection of Crops from the Intrusion of Wild and Domestic Animals Using Deep Learning and IOT
   > DCNN algorithm guarantees the accuracy of classification of invasive species. This was trained on a dataset of 90 different species of animals. It will detect
05943|Effect of Climate Variability on Yams (Dioscorea spp.) Production in Central and Northern Benin
   > This research also shows an instability of the rains with a regular decrease in the rainfall in the Centre and the North-East of the country.
05944|Cross Domain Early Crop Mapping using CropGAN and CNN Classifier
   > [no abstract]
05945|Morphological and molecular dissection of wild rices from eastern India suggests distinct speciation between O. rufipogon and O. nivara populations
   > [no term] The inter relationships between the two progenitors is interesting as both wild relatives are known to be the great untapped gene reservoirs. The debate continues on granting a separate species
05946|Improving cross-ancestry generalizability of genetic risk prediction for short stature using a meta-polygenic risk score
   > in PRS distributions and predictive performance limit equitable clinical translation. Improving cross-ancestry generalizability is therefore essential for reliable and fair implementation. Methods: Using whole-genome sequencing … randomly divided into training (20%) and testing (80%) datasets. To mitigate ancestry-related distribution shifts, we residualized height and ancestry-specific PRS on gen
05947|Enhancing Security with Real-Time Animal Intruder Detection: A Deep Learning Approach for Automated Alerts and Notifications
   > management. It offers immediate alarms whereby quick actions can be done to decrease the risks made by animal invasions. The real-time capability minimizes responses between … What follows are the architecture and methodologies of the system itself-evaluation in real-world conditions.
05948|New shape and texture descriptors for an improved germplasm characterization of the most representative Mediterranean vascular flora, by image analysi
   > [no abstract]
05949|Decomposition based curriculum-style self-training for source-free universal domain adaptation in computational pathology
   > substantially hinder the cross-institute deployment. In this dilemma, recently emerging source-free universal domain adaptation (SF-UniDA) aims to achieve knowledge transfer using only unlabeled target data,
05950|Roosting Ecology of Amazonian Bats: Evidence for Guild Structure in Hyperdiverse Mammalian Communities
   > [no term] ABSTRACT The ecological mechanisms that sustain high species richness in Neotropical bat communities have attracted research attention for several decades. Although many ecologists have studied the feeding behavior and diets
05951|RafanoSet: Dataset of raw, manually, and automatically annotated Raphanus Raphanistrum weed images for object detection and segmentation.
   > [no term] The rationale for this data article is to provide resources which could facilitate the studies focussed over weed detection and segmentation in precision farming using computer vision. We have curated
05952|Conformalized Quantile Regression for Uncertainty-Aware Electric Boiler Scheduling
   > out-of-sample coverage guarantees, particularly under seasonal transitions and peak demand conditions where distribution shifts are more pronounced. This paper proposes a data-driven framework for uncertainty-aware
05953|A UG -ILA: M ORE T RANSFERABLE I NTERMEDIATE L EVEL A TTACKS WITH A UGMENTED R EFERENCES
   > [no abstract]
05954|CNN based image detection system for elephant directions to reduce human-elephant conflict
   > [no abstract]
05955|A novel denoising autoencoder assisted segmentation algorithm for cotton field
   > [no abstract]
05956|SSFT: A Lightweight Spectral-Spatial Fusion Transformer for Generic Hyperspectral Classification
   > challenging due to high dimensionality, spectral redundancy, limited labeled data, and strong domain shifts. Beyond earth observation, labeled HSI data is often scarce and imbalanced,
05957|Class-Specific Cross Attention for Fine Grained Paddy Disease Classification
   > most focus on leaf-level classification under controlled environments and fixed backgrounds, limiting generalizability and real-world field utility. This work investigates the application of fine-grained image … to extract class-relevant features at both global and local levels. To evaluate generalization, the study leverages publicly available online paddy disease datasets for training and assess
05958|Feature Based Bearing Fault Detection With Phase Current Sensor Signals Under Different Operating Conditions
   > particular importance for predictive maintenance of motor failures. In the past, mainly external vibration sensorswere used for fault detection. However, in recent years, therehas been … deep learning approachfor diminishing the influence of different operating conditionsby utilizing unsupervised domain adaptation. As input datafor the neural network, we propose to extract hand-craftedfeatures,
05959|Comprehensive Analysis of the 16p11.2 Deletion and Null Cntnap2 Mouse Models of Autism Spectrum Disorder
   > [no term] Autism spectrum disorder comprises several neurodevelopmental conditions presenting symptoms in social communication and restricted, repetitive behaviors. A major roadblock for drug development for autism is the lack of robust behavioral
05960|CROP YEILD PREDICTION USING ML
   > [no abstract]
05961|BananaVLM: A Domain-Adapted Vision Language Model for Banana Crop Disease Diagnosis
   > accuracy with 1.00 recall. A controlled LoRA--DoRA comparison shows that DoRA performance degrades across epochs, while LoRA remains more effective for fine-grained classification. Qualitative evaluation … in 98.48% of 990 blind pairwise comparisons. These results show that lightweight domain adaptation with automated instruction tuning is an effective and scalable approach for
05962|Measurement accuracy of the area of combine-harvested field sections corresponding to a truckload of grain received at a grain elevator
   > of LHA were 4.7% and 8.1%. The center of the relative error distribution shifted toward positive because positioning errors of a GPS receiver shifted outer
05963|Deep Learning based Crop Row Detection with Online Domain Adaptation
   > [no term] Detecting crop rows from video frames in real time is a fundamental challenge in the field of precision agriculture. Deep learning based semantic segmentation method, namely U-net, although successful in
05964|A Benchmarking Framework for Fine-grained Multilabel Semantic Segmentation of Mango Fruit Surface Defects
   > a clear and reproducible benchmark, along with a practical roadmap for public, cross-domain validation and unified training goals.
05965|Zero Shot Domain Adaptive Semantic Segmentation by Synthetic Data Generation and Progressive Adaptation
   > learning-based semantic segmentation models achieve impressive results yet remain limited in handling distribution shifts between training and test data. In this paper, we present SDGPA … no target images are available, but only a text description of the target domain’s style is provided. To compensate for the lack of target domain training data, we utilize a pretrained off-the-shelf text-to-image
05966|Abstract A073: TP53 mutant variant allele frequency improves machine-learning prediction of post-operative survival in pancreatic cancer and marks a p
   > VAF-gradient gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) characterized TP53-associated transcription. Transcriptional findings were externally validated in TCGA-PAAD (n=177) and CPTAC-PDAC (n=140). Among all CGP features, TP53 … by 0.09 (0.729 to 0.813). TP53 mutation and node positivity stratified OS independently (median OS: TP53-mutant/node-positive 11.0, mutant/node-negative 16.5, wild-type/node-posit
05967|Deep Learning–Guided Retinal Vascular Morphometric Quantification in Cerebral Autosomal Dominant Arteriopathy with Subcortical Infarcts and Leukoencep
   > reported as supportive performance of the localization framework. Results Whole-field morphometry detected generalized large-vessel dilation in both mutants versus WT (mean diameter: WT 27.82 μm;
05968|RLHF-Driven Household Appliance Scheduling with Dynamic Comfort Windows
   > battery cycling while meeting practical runtime constraints; it also converges rapidly and generalizes across preference changes and tariff realizations, indicating resilience to model-plant mismatch and
05969|Abstract 5298: Impact of targeted therapy on the tumor immune microenvironment in EGFR-mutated NSCLC
   > [no term]  In EGFR-mutated lung cancer, osimertinib, a third-generation EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor, has demonstrated durable efficacy in many cases. However, early resistance arises in some patients during treatment. The tumor
05970|Rancang Bangun Aplikasi Petani Sawah Sugita Menggunakan Algoritma Dijkstra Untuk Mempermudah Penjualan Hasil Pertanian
   > [no term] In general, the buyers of rice field produce are often middlemen who offer the lowest possible prices to the farmers. This is due to the lengthy distribution chain that causes
05971|CLIP-Guided Fusion of Image and Leaf Dictionary Features for Plant Disease Classification
   > Plant disease classification from leaf images is often hindered by domain shift and a lack of interpretability. We propose a multimodal framework that … +10.89 points on validation and +12.52 points on test data. The approach generalizes effectively to unseen farms, linking predictions to biologically meaningful features and providing a modular, extensible
05972|Improved classification and pathogenicity assessment by comprehensive functional studies in a large data set of KCNQ2 variants.
   > [no term] AIMS The paucity of functional annotations on hundreds of KCNQ2 variants impedes the diagnosis and treatment of KCNQ2-related disorders. The aims of this work were to determine the functional properties
05973|The cognitive-emotional brain: Opportunities and challenges for understanding neuropsychiatric disorders--ERRATUM.
   > [no abstract]
05974|A comprehensive dataset of rice leaf images for disease detection using machine learning
   > These images, captured under varying environmental conditions using smartphone cameras, accurately reflect real-world conditions. The images have been meticulously annotated by agronomy experts for reliable
05975|Responses of Temperate Grassland Plants to Recurrent Heatwaves
   > [no term]  Heatwaves are an often‐overlooked aspect of current climate change in plant research. However, projections of future scenarios show an increase in their frequency and intensity in most temperate‐climate regions.
05976|Computational imaging of high-spatial-resolution hyperspectral remote sensed images： From fusion to spectral super-resolution
   > existing algorithms are systematically analyzed. And finally, three possible future trends including cross-domain adaptation, multi-library alignment, and hardware implementation are analyzed and discussed in the
05977|TBRG-1 a ras-like protein in Trichoderma virens involved in conidiation, development, secondary metabolism, mycoparasitism, and biocontrol unveils a n
   > [no term] Ras-GTPases are nucleotide hydrolases involved in key cellular processes. In fungi, Ras-GTPases regulate conidiation, development, virulence, and interactions with other fungi or plants. Trichoderma spp. are filamentous saprophytic fungi, widely
05978|Population Trends of the Maleo (Macrocephalon maleo SCLATER, 1860) and Conservation Efforts
   > expansion and settlement growth. Current estimates suggest only 4,000–8,000 mature individuals remain in the wild, classifying the species as Endangered (EN) on the IUCN Red … results, with hatching success rates of 60–80% at managed sites. However, fragmented cross-regional policies and limited long-term funding remain unresolved structural barriers. An integrated conservation
05979|AnyPos: Automated Task-Agnostic Actions for Bimanual Manipulation
   > Learning generalizable manipulation policies hinges on data, yet robot manipulation data is scarce and … what is physically feasible and consistent, task-agnostic data takes the form of independent image-action pairs with the potential to cover the entire embodiment workspace, unlike
05980|Research on multi‐center assisted diagnosis of ASD based on multimodal feature fusion
   > dimensions. This study introduced a method based on the Local Global Multimodal Domain Adaptation (LGMDA)‐Sparse Adaptive Prior Coupled Dictionary Learning (SACDL) framework. Initially, the LGMDA
05981|Asymm-Unet: A Concise Model for Segmentation of Satellite Imagery for Crop Mapping
   > high-resolution satellite imagery to identify the types of crops being grown in different regions. Crop mapping is essentially a task of satellite image segmentation, for
05982|Transfer Learning for Plant Disease Detection on Complex Images
   > that it contains only laboratory images, which reduces the classifier performance when tested on complex field images. In this paper we study the use of … This dataset is used to fine-tune three state-of-the-art image classifiers that are pre-trained on the ImageNet dataset: AlexNet, ResNet34 and DenseNet121. The experiment results show
05983|Implementation of NGS protocols for the diagnosis of rare genetic diseases and development of models for the validation of mutations
   > [no abstract]
05984|Opposing shifts in distributions of chlorophyll concentration and composition in grassland under warming
   > [no term] Global warming has significantly altered the distribution and productivity of vegetation owing to shifts in plant functional traits. However, chlorophyll adaptations—good representative of plant production—in grasslands have not been investigated
05985|Subtraction-Based Tumor Segmentation and Lesion-Centered pCR Prediction for the MAMA-MIA Challenge
   > pathological complete response (pCR) from pretreatment dynamic contrast-enhanced breast MRI on an external multi-country cohort. For segmentation, we trained a five-fold residual-encoder nnU-Net ensemble using only the first post-contrast minus pre-contrast image, combined with mirroring test-time augmentation and largest-connected-component filtering. For pCR prediction, we ensembled 25 pretraine
05986|MobileNetV3-Large for Retinopathy Severity and Edema Risk from Fundus Images and Clinical Captions
   > MobileNetV3- Large is suitable for efficient ophthalmic screening. These results indicate robust generalization under simple, reproducible preprocessing that supports practical use in triage or tele-ophthalmology … calibration and explainability, and will be validated across multi-center cohorts to assess domain shift and clinical impact.
05987|GNN-based Disease Detection and Classification in Cassava Leaf
   > features from images, they often fail to capture complex spatial relationships between different regions of the leaf. To address this limitation, we integrate GNNs, which … disease spread structures found in cassava leaves. By modeling the relationship between different regions of the cassava leaf as a graph G (V, E), where
05988|Mapping 10-m harvested area in the major winter wheat-producing regions of China from 2018 to 2022
   > generated sample points from existing winter wheat maps and obtained samples for different years using a temporal migration method. Random forest classifiers were then constructed
05989|Smart Manufacturing: State-of-the-Art Review in Context of Conventional and Modern Manufacturing Process Modeling, Monitoring and Control
   > to meeting such demands with a highly skilled workforce. Furthermore, in this new environment it is important to understand how process modeling, monitoring, and control
05990|Advances in semi and self-supervised learning techniques for cross-domain visual inspection tools
   > [no abstract]
05991|Elman and Jordan Recurrence in Convolutional Neural Networks Using Attention Window
   > [no abstract]
05992|SimFuse3D: Source-Guided Target Simulation and Confidence-Guided Multi-Stage Localization Reweighting for Cross-Platform 3D Object Detection
   > sensor height and viewpoint alter object-level point distributions, making cross-platform LiDAR unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) difficult. Self-training uses labeled source scans and unlabeled target scans,
05993|Differentiable Resolution Allocation for Tiny Object Detection in UAV Imagery
   > competitive with all compared methods. Experiments on UAVDT, AI-TOD-v2 and SODA-A assess cross-dataset generalization.
05994|Quantifying species distribution within the functional space
   > a gradual reorganization of species within the functional space. Initially random, the distribution shifted towards clustering, reflecting increasing habitat complexity and the formation of ecological
05995|Improving prediction accuracy in agricultural markets through the CIMA-AttGRU model
   > futures prices. Complementing the CIMA and AttGRU, the integration of Class-wise Adversarial Domain Adaptation (CADA) further refines the model’s robustness, addressing the critical challenge of
05996|Research on Accuracy of Flower Recognition Application Based on Convolutional Neural Network
   > [no abstract]
05997|Exploration of Autonomous Mobile Robots through Challenging Outdoor Environments for Natural Plant Recognition Using Deep Neural Network
   > of the system has been tested with a number of experiments in different years, 2017 and 2018, and at different times of day, morning and
05998|DODA: Adapting Object Detectors to Dynamic Agricultural Environments in Real-Time with Diffusion
   > Object detection has wide applications in agriculture, but domain shifts of diverse environments limit the broader use of the trained models. Existing domain adaptation methods usually require reapplying the entire method for new domains, which … constantly changing environments. In this paper, we propose DODA (Diffusion for Object-detection Domain Adaptation in Agriculture), a diffusion-based fra
05999|Provisional Classification of Wild Edible Fruits Based on their Nutrient Profiles
   > [no term] Nutritional analyses of food have mainly focused on determining the nutritional composition. Few concentrate on their nutritional value. This study provisionally classified ten wild edible fruit types (WEF) growing in
06000|ATC/DDD Directed Classification of Neural Ayurvedic Medicines
   > the disputed identity of ayurvedic formulations sold under different brand names in different regions of the country and world. Recently, allopathic medicines have been classified
06001|Annual time-series 1 km maps of crop area and types in the conterminous US (CropAT-US): cropping diversity changes during 1850–2021
   > (30 Mha) and soybean (35 Mha). Spatially, the hot spots of cropland distribution shifted from the Eastern US to the Midwest and the Great Plains,
06002|Above‐ and below‐ground responses of four tundra plant functional types to deep soil heating and surface soil fertilization
   > [no abstract]
06003|Why do we need a Biofilm Imaging Library? Current limitations when analyzing confocal 3D images
   > Biofilms in the wild are composed of diverse microorganisms from multiple domains and are
06004|Things We "kNOw" and Do Not "kNOw" about Pulmonary Hypertension.
   > PH including elevated right systolic pressure and hypertrophy, pulmonary vascular remodeling, and decreased survival were more prominent in eNOS-deficient mice compared with wild-type mice or
06005|UvA-DARE ( Digital Academic Repository ) Identification of Linear Vegetation Elements in a Rural Landscape Using LiDAR Point
   > [no abstract]
06006|Proposal of updated XYZ system for the production of hybrid wheat seed
   > [no term] The following updates have been proposed for the XYZ system for the production of hybrid wheat: The waxy characteristics of the grain were used as a classifying mark. The candidate
06007|Enhancing accuracy in detecting and tracking wild animals to protect crop lands using template matching over random forest algorithm
   > [no abstract]
06008|Robust Hybrid Deep Learning Framework for Multi-Source Rice Leaf Disease Detection
   > Rice leaf disease detection systems trained on controlled laboratory datasets often fail when deployed in diverse agricultural environments … a specialized architecture for agricultural disease detection and an evaluation methodology emphasizing cross-domain robustness over peak single-dataset accuracy.
06009|Multi Crop Disease Detection Methods Using Deep Learning for Sustainable Farming: A Review
   > [no term] The merger of artificial incompatibility in agriculture has become a significant access to sustainable farming, which is the initial detection and control of plant disease. This comprehensive review targets three
06010|Image Super-Resolution Using a Enhanced Swin Transformer Network
   > data augmentation layer generates new training samples by randomly cropping and blurring different regions of images, thereby expanding the training dataset and improving the model's generalization ability and robustness. The deep feature extraction module is composed of multiple
06011|Predicting Biomass and Yield in a Tomato Phenotyping Experiment Using UAV Imagery and Random Forest
   > [no term] Biomass and yield are key variables for assessing the production and performance of agricultural systems. Modeling and predicting the biomass and yield of individual plants at the farm scale represents
06012|Lightweight Cross-Domain Soybean Disease Detection Using MobileNetV3 and Contrastive Feature Alignment on UAV and Leaf Imagery
   > when applied to aerial images captured by UAVs. In this paper, a cross-domain approach for soybean disease detection, which can be trained both with UAV … India. Lightweight networks such as MobileNetV3 and EfficientNet-B0 were combined with three domain adaptation algorithms, namely Gradient Reversal Layer (GRL), Maximum Mean Discrepancy (MMD), and
06013|MVCBench: A Multimodal Benchmark for Drug-induced Virtual Cell Phenotypes
   > representation methods) across nearly 1.1 million drug-induced profiles, under both in-distribution and out-of-distribution settings spanning unseen compounds, cell lines, assay plates and datasets. Our benchmarking reveals a pronounced … models in predicting drug-induced transcriptomic responses. Predictive performance also deteriorates sharply under distribution shift, highlighting persistent ch
06014|Effects of Temperature and Precipitation at Large Spatial Scales on Genetic Diversity, Genetic Structure, and Potential Distribution of Agropyron mich
   > genetic diversity and structure of Agropyron michnoi, and modeled its large-scale potential distribution shifts. A. michnoi was studied under different temperature and precipitation gradients on
06015|Automating Crop-Field Segmentation in High-Resolution Satellite Images: A U-Net Approach with Optimized Multitemporal Canny Edge Detection
   > provides refined input for training ResUnet models, facilitating the generation of a generalized training dataset. ResUnet allows the model to learn complex features from diverse … superior ability in recognizing real field boundaries while reducing false detections.To enhance generalizability, ResUnet is trained on a varied global dataset capturing a wide range of agricultural conditions and seas
06016|Optimizing Wastewater Treatment Control Using Policy-Constrained Offline Reinforcement Learning and Lyapunov Density Model
   > behavior policy derived from the dataset. However, during deployment, especially when encountering out-of-distribution states, the learned agent may still produce dangerous actions. To address this,
06017|Real-Time Semantic Segmentation of Crop and Weed for Precision Agriculture Robots Leveraging Background Knowledge in CNNs
   > in real time. Furthermore, it can be effectively re-trained to so far unseen fields with a comparably small amount of training data. We implemented and … different fields in Germany and Switzerland. The results show that our system generalizes well, can operate at around 20 Hz, and is suitable for online
06018|Weeds in a changing environment
   > [no abstract]
06019|Vision Transformer based bundled tobacco leaves grade classification technology
   > of tobacco leaves can easily lead to unstable vision, uneven vision at different sites, as well as issues such as favoritism and personal relationship, which
06020|Classification of radicular biomass and monitoring of litter in Pantanal and Cerrado Mato-Grossense
   > and to monitor accumulated litter in the soil (litter pool), in two different regions, in the Pantanal (Acurizal) and in the Cerrado (Sensu stricto) Mato-Grossense.
06021|Vision Normalizing Flows for the probability-informed detection of banana diseases from in-field images
   > DINOv3 vision foundation model and couples them with a conditional normalizing flow, trained on four publicly available datasets spanning diseased banana plants, healthy tissue, non-banana vegetation, and general natural imagery. On an independent test set the model achieved F1 scores exceeding 0.98, average precision values … disease presence and image relevance, cleanly separating diseased plant
06022|Investigating emic care in Appalachians of Western North Carolina
   > [no abstract]
06023|Linking Microbial Community Structure to Trait Distributions and Functions Using Salinity as an Environmental Filter
   > filtered trait distributions correlated well with community composition differences, suggesting that trait distribution shifts were driven at least partly by species turnover. While salt exposure decreased respiration, microbial growth responses appeared to be characterized by competitive interactions. Fungal
06024|AI Alignment: A Contemporary Survey
   > alignment, we discuss techniques for learning from feedback and learning under the distribution shift. Specifically, we survey traditional preference modeling methods and reinforcement learning from … tasks where effective human oversight is hard to obtain. Within learning under distribution shift, we also cover data distribution interventions such as adversarial training that
06025|DISTRIBUTION AND COMPOSITION OF THE MAIN ACTIVE COMPONENTS FOUND IN STINGLESS BEE PROPOLIS FROM VARIOUS REGIONS IN INDONESIA
   > [no term] Objective: The aim of this study is to map out the distribution and composition of the main active components found in stingless bee propolis from various regions in Indonesia. Methods:
06026|A PROCEDURE FOR IDENTIFYING INVASIVE WILD PARSNIP PLANTS BASED ON VISIBLE BANDS FROM UAV IMAGES
   > [no term] Wild parsnip is an invasive plant that has serious health risks to humans due to the toxin in its sap. Monitoring its presence has been a challenging task for conservation
06027|Meta-modelling of carbon fluxes from crop and grassland multi-model outputs
   > validation strategies for GPP and RECO (70%/30% training/validation approach and the time-aware leave-one-year-out (LOYO) method), and three strategies for NEE (70%/30%, complete LOYO and independent validation using the meta-model based RECO-GPP). All meta-models were associated with improved … 8 % for NEE (0.5 %–12.5 %). In the case of the independent validation strategy correlation increase was
06028|Visual-Based Flower Counting: Techniques and Applications
   > encompassing both horizontal (methodological evolution from traditional to deep learning) and vertical (cross-species and scene-condition) performance analyses. Crucially, we validate representative algorithms on deployed platforms-UAV
06029|Machine Learning-Based Estimation and Bias Correction of Reference Evapotranspiration Using ERA5-Land Over Morocco: A 76-Year Climate Change Analysis
   > (R ${ }^{\mathbf{2}}$: 0.437 to 0.806; RMSE: 53.0 to 31.1 mm/month). Spatial generalization was assessed via leave-one-city-out cross-validation (mean $\mathbf{R}^{\mathbf{2}} \boldsymbol{=} \mathbf{0. 9 3 5}$ across ten cities) and on four unseen cities, with $\mathbf{R}^{\mathbf{2}} \boldsymbol{>} \mathbf{0. 9 2}$ for three cities. SHAP analysis
06030|Morphological characterization of trichomes shows enormous variation in shape, density and dimensions across the leaves of 14 Solanum species
   > [no term] Abstract Trichomes are the epidermal appendages commonly observed on plant surfaces including leaves, stem and fruits. Plant trichomes have been well studied as a structural plant defence designed to protect
06031|Plant Disease Detection Based on Improved Self Attention Transformer
   > tackle class imbalance and improve the discrimination of visually similar disease categories. Domain adaptation strategies are also integrated to enhance the model's generalization across diverse datasets and unseen environmental conditions. When the suggested method is tested on the PlantDoc dataset, it performs better in accuracy (99.2%) and precision
06032|Simulation of regeneration of big sagebrush supports predicted changes in habitat suitability at the trailing and leading edges of distribution shifts
   > [no abstract]
06033|Can Synthetic Data Overcome the Generalization Limits of AI-Based Flower and Pod Detection Across Cowpea Breeding Genotypes and Environments?
   > High-throughput phenotyping requires AI-enabled computer vision models that generalize across genotypes, locations, and growing seasons, yet such models often lose accuracy … Flower detection mAP@50 fell from 76.3% to as low as 50.6% under unseen shifts, and pod detection was more sensitive. Feature-space and image-quality diagnostics confirmed
06034|Generalization Approach for CNN-based Object Detection in Unconstrained Outdoor Environments
   > in agriculture. However, training a reliable object detection model which can be generalized to different environments requires large amounts of data which is difficult to
06035|CornPheno: Phenotyping corn ear kernels in the wild via point query transformer
   > CornPheno, a user-friendly, low-end, smartphone-based approach capable of executing corn ear phenotyping in the wild. CornPheno highlights three corn ear parameters: kernels per ear, rows
06036|A Soil Monitoring and Recommendation System for Ornamental Plants
   > [no term] Taking care of ornamental plants includes paying attention to soil moisture in pots, making sure the plants are exposed to sufficient sunlight, and applying fertilizer when needed. However, people nowadays
06037|Sugarcane acreage estimation using Sentinel-2A satellite data and time series approach
   > Copernicus Open Access Hub (https://scihub.copernicus.eu/). The ground truth data was collected at different location sites in Navsari district for real time identification of sugarcane crop
06038|CNN BASED IMAGE CLASSIFICATION FOR ANIMAL INTRUSION DETECTION SYSTEM
   > [no abstract]
06039|Prediction of Whole Pork Loin and Individual Chops’ Intramuscular Fat Using Computer Vision System Technology
   > and test the accuracy of using a computer vision system (CVS) on different locations of the loin. Whole pork loins (n = 1,400) were obtained
06040|Definition , theoretical – experimental modeling and energy management of concentrating photovoltaic and thermal systems
   > [no abstract]
06041|Potential distribution of invasive crop pests under climate change: incorporating mitigation responses of insects into prediction models.
   > Climate change facilitates biological invasions globally. Predicting potential distribution shifts of invasive crop pests under climate change is essential for global
06042|Dynamics Models for Offline Hyperparameter Selection in Real-World RL
   > unavailable and online experimentation is costly. Prior work has proposed calibration models trained on offline data to approximate environment dynamics and enable offline hyperparameter selection, … fine-tuning learning rates for pre-trained agents, and how robust they are under distribution shift. Overall, our findings provide a proof of concept for using offline
06043|Output Power Forecasting of Solar Photovoltaic System Using Meta-cognitive Neuro Fuzzy Inference System
   > [no abstract]
06044|Exploring indigenous knowledge and practices of the Gurage community on the biosystematics and utilization of Enset landraces for bone fracture and re
   > [no term] Background Enset (Ensete ventricosum) is a crucial perennial crop in Ethiopia for both food and medicine. The indigenous knowledge and practices of the use and biosystematics of the different Enset
06045|Combining Domain Adaptation and Spatial Consistency for Unseen Fruits Counting: A Quasi-Unsupervised Approach
   > In particular, we use a Cycle-Generative Adversarial Network (C-GAN) to perform unsupervised domain adaptation and train it alongside with a Presence-Absence Classifier (PAC) that discriminates
06046|Investigating the Generalization of Image Classifiers with Augmented Test Sets
   > find that neither the ResNet or the Vision Transformer is robust to distribution shifts controlled with data augmentation. The performance of both models degrades heavily even with moderate augmentation strengths. Although remedied by explicitly training with … augmentation used to construct the test set, we still see a notable decrease in performance. This study illustrates the utility of general
06047|Real-Time Maize Disease Identification Using Vision Transformer and Conditional Convolution
   > improving its ability to accurately classify diseases from images captured in diverse real-world conditions. To further enhance the robustness and generalization of our model, we propose a novel data augmentation technique, C3GAN, a
06048|Molecular Assessment of Established Clonal Propagated Mulberry (Moru nigra L.)
   > studied. All ISSR markers used in this study revealed higher genetic diversity in the wild species comparing with cultivated species. ISSR matrices reported that the … isolate, i.e., M nigra, a collection from Al shafa. Contains access to another sub-cluster southwest regions of Taif, which belong to Morus nigra wild growing.
06049|Assessment of Water Quality of Soan River using Physicochemical Parameters and Aquatic Insects Diversity
   > [no abstract]
06050|Hybrid GAN–Diffusion and Lesion-Aware Generative Models for Crop Disease Classification in Precision Agriculture
   > framework that combines conditional GANs, lesion-aware synthesis, diffusion-based refinement, and Cycle GAN-driven domain adaptation. This framework was validated on Plant Village and the New Plant … augmentation impact was most significant. All figures are reproducible given the five independent iterations per dataset. These were executed on an NVIDIA RTX 3090 (24
06051|AI Alignment: A Comprehensive Survey
   > forward alignment, we discuss techniques for learning from feedback and learning under distribution shift. On backward alignment, we discuss assurance techniques and governance practices. We
06052|From Web Data to Real Fields: Low-Cost Unsupervised Domain Adaptation for Agricultural Robots
   > In precision agriculture, vision models often struggle with new, unseen fields where crops and weeds have been influenced by external factors, resulting in compositions and appearances that differ from the learned distribution. … paper aims to adapt to specific fields at low cost using Unsupervised Domain Adaptation (UDA). We explore a novel domain shift from a diverse, large pool of internet-sour
06053|A knowledge-driven unified framework for plant disease classification and severity grading via domain adaptation
   > timely intervention and optimized management. Existing models often fail to recognize previously unseen disease categories due to rigid label spaces and limited representation of plant … plant species, disease categories, and severity levels from labeled data, forming a transferable representation space. It employs a multi-level contrastive learning strategy to capture both global semantic represe
06054|The PVSG/WHO versus the Rotterdam European clinical, molecular and pathological diagnostic criteria for the classification of myeloproliferative disor
   > [no term] The present article extends the PVSG-WHO criteria into a simplifi ed set of Rotterdam and European Clinical, Molecular and Pathological (RCP/ECMP) criteria to diagnose and classify the myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs).
06055|Multi-Source Domain Adaptation Enhanced Warehouse Dwell Time Prediction
   > [no term] Warehouse dwell time (WDT) of a truck is a critical metric for evaluating plant-logistics efficiency, including the time of the truck's queuing outside and loading inside the warehouse. But WDT
06056|Support Vector Machine Classification of Crop Lands Using Sentinel-2 Imagery
   > classification can give some guidance and the method can be applied to other regions.
06057|TG-fusion: A target-guided fusion framework for domain-adaptive counting
   > distribution of the objects together with the counting numbers for an unlabelled target domain. In this paper, we propose using feature fusion to unify contradictory information from diﬀerent domains for domain adaptation. This leads to a scene adaptation framework, Target-Guided Fusion (TG-Fusion), which simpliﬁes and boosts the eﬃciency of cross-domain counting adaptation. The framework performs
06058|Employing Machine Learning for the Prediction of Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) Phenotypes
   > yields better outcomes than 7-mers. This research has shown that by applying cross-domain research methodologies and capitalizing on the shared characteristics among different datasets, the
06059|GENETIC DIVERSITY ANALYSIS OF SWEET POTATO [IPOMOEA BATATAS (L.) LAM.] GERMPLASMS THROUGH RAPD AND ISSR MARKERS
   > and classify them. The biggest advantages of molecular markers are their environmental independent nature; irrespective of time of development; not influenced by epistatic interactions (Koutita … and Fulton 2003). It is evident that different molecular markers can target different regions of the genome thus providing more detail and diverse information of
06060|Res-GHA-Net: A Physiology-Aware Adaptive Transfer Framework with Residual Gated Attention for Cross-Greenhouse Tomato Growth Prediction
   > of tomato growth across greenhouses is severely hindered by environmental heterogeneity and domain shift. This paper proposes Res-GHA-Net, a physiology-aware adaptive transfer learning framework integrating biological growth priors for cross-greenhouse tomato growth prediction. Under a leave-one-greenhouse-out protocol, a residual gated attention network is pretrained on source greenhouses and tra
06061|Autonomous vehicle for oyster aquaculture
   > [no term] Marine aquaculture is a sustainable method for meeting the growing demand for seafood worldwide, filling the gap left by the stagnating volume of wild-caught seafood. However, compared to agriculture it
06062|Development and Implementation of an Animal Intrusion Detection System Using Image and Audio Processing
   > [no term] The presence of wild animals near populated areas is a significant problem that poses a threat to human lives and causes resource damage. Animals often venture into these areas in
06063|Association of dietary behaviors, macro-nutrients and energy intake with body fat percentage, lean mass, and bone mineral density.
   > [no abstract]
06064|Selection of loose-leaf lettuce breeding lines based on non-parametric indexes
   > and two commercial cultivars (Vanda and Vera). The experiments occurred in six different locations of cultivation during the autumn and winter seasons of 2014. Experimental … selection of loose-leaf lettuce genotypes in the stage of cultivar recommendation in different locations. As the best lineages of loose-leaf lettuce were L2, L3, L7
06065|A deep-learning-based facial expression recognition method with real-time application potential
   > [no abstract]
06066|Growth analysis of oak trees in bottomland hardwood restoration planting in the Lower Mississippi Alluvial Valley
   > [no abstract]
06067|Design and Development of Smart System for the Identification and Diversion of Wild Animal in Agricultural Field
   > [no term] As human populations continue to expand, conflicts between agriculture and wildlife have become increasingly prevalent. The “Design and Development of a Smart System for the Identification and Diversion of Wild
06068|Multispectral Image Segmentation in Agriculture: Evaluating Deep Learning Models with Train-Test Split and Cross-Validation Strategies
   > and tested considering single-modality representations. In addition to the RGB modality, models trained on NDVI, GNDVI and early fusion are also evaluated. The performance of … both models and the modalities. This indicates that the models lack strong generalization capabilities to new data and, on the other hand, that the train-test
06069|Application of Lagging Village Mapping And Pre-Prosperous Family Using Back Propagation Algorithm In Bathin III Ulu District Bungo District Jambi Prov
   > districts that are relatively underdeveloped and have relatively underdeveloped populations compared to other regions on a national scale. Batin III Ulu District Bungo has 9
06070|Risk Assessment of Geological Hazards in the Dahe Mountain Area Based on AHP
   > to the established evaluation model. The risk magnitude of geological hazards in different regions of Dahe Mountain is obtained. Moreover, the research findings can provide
06071|Image Processing based Protection of Crops from wild animals using Intelligent Surveillance
   > [no term] Surveillance plays a major role in home, hospitals, schools, public places, farmlands etc. It helps us to monitor and prevent theft. To prevent unauthorized peoples, surveillance is important in farmlands.
06072|Chemical composition, antibacterial, and antifungal activities of the essential oil of Thymus numidicus Poiret from Algeria
   > [no abstract]
06073|Integrated Satellite and UAV Remote Sensing Approaches: A Comprehensive Review
   > cost-intensive deep learning-based fusion models, radiometric discrepancies across diverse sensors, and rudimentary cross-domain preparation frameworks have all been categorized as primary research gaps. This paper
06074|Hybrid Deep Learning and Feature Fusion Framework for Robust Potato Leaf Disease Detection in Real-World Conditions
   > networks (CNNs) to classify these diseases using image data, most models are trained on clean, ideal datasets and fail under real-world conditions. This paper proposes a robust hybrid model that integrates deep CNN … Extensive ablation studies and feature importance analysis further validate the robustness and generalizability of the framework. This research contributes a scalable, interpretable, 
06075|Knowledge Guided Encoder-Decoder Framework: Integrating Multiple Physical Models for Agricultural Ecosystem Modeling
   > ecological variables. As a result, they require extensive training data and lack generalizability to different tasks with data distribution shifts and inconsistent observed variables. To address the need for more universal
06076|Domain-Invariant Feature Learning for Patient-Level Phenotype Prediction from Single-Cell Data
   > to enabling precision diagnostics. However, study-specific artifacts induce spurious correlations that limit generalization and interpretability. We studied this problem in the context of Multiple Instance … is modeled as a set of single-cell profiles. To improve robustness to domain shifts, we propose an adversarial and metric-based approach that learns domain-invariant representations
06077|Towards understanding isotope variability in elephant ivory to establish isotopic profiling and source-area determination
   > [no abstract]
06078|Insect Recognition Under Natural Scenes Using R-FCN with Anchor Boxes Estimation
   > [no abstract]
06079|Biophysical and anthropogenous determinants of landscape patterns and degradation of plant communities in Mo hilly basin (Togo)
   > [no abstract]
06080|Data Driven Approaches to Improve Solar Energy Forecasting Using Machine Learning Algorithm
   > study focuses on predicting the electrical output of solar power plants across different locations, a task intricately tied to local climatic conditions. Given the multifaceted
06081|Agri-FM+: a Self-Supervised Foundation Model for Agricultural Vision
   > vision, yet their adoption in precision agriculture remains limited due to significant domain shifts from natural images. Existing agricultural foundation models focus primarily on remote
06082|Abstract PS5-03-17: Ai-derived Morphometric And Transcriptomic Biomarkers From H&E-stained Images Predict Response To Durvalumab And Olaparib In Metas
   > [no term]  PARP inhibitors (PARPi) have demonstrated the potential to enhance tumor immunogenicity and sensitize cancer cells to immune checkpoint blockade, as shown in the AMTEC clinical trial. However, identifying PARPi
06083|An Analysis of Wild Fauna Trespassing Warning System using CNN and YOLO v3
   > [no term] Human-wildlife conflict denotes the harmful interactions occurring between wild animals and humans, leading to adverse impacts on individuals, their resources, or the wildlife and their habitat. The expansion of human
06084|Evaluation of impacts of management in an anthropogenic peatland using field and remote sensing data
   > variables were used to classify the ecosystem into microsites to analyze the different locations in the peatland. In addition, predictive models of aboveground carbon were … However, the strongest impact was found on the vegetation variables, with a decrease in total cover, cover of shrubs and herbaceous plants, and in vegetation
06085|SEMANTIC SEGMENTATION METHOD ACCELERATED QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS OF THE SPATIAL CHARACTERISTICS OF TRADITIONAL VILLAGES
   > traditional villages that have been announced so far, 60 traditional villages from different regions in the north and south were selected for analysis. The experiments
06086|Security in Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) based Industrial Control Systems: Challenges and Solutions
   > industrial control systems from traditional electromagnetic to network- based digital systems. This domain shift has created better interfaces for communication between physical processes and the
06087|A Crop Yield Prediction Model Integrating Multi-Scale Temporal Features and Physical Constraints
   > physical parameters and environmental stress factors under strict boundary constraints. Results from “leave-one-year-out” cross-validation show that the proposed algorithm outperforms benchmark models in prediction accuracy. Furthermore, the model demonstrates significant robustness and generalization under extreme weather conditions, providing essential technical support for regional precision ag
06088|Resource-Efficient Hybrid Vision Model for Early Detection of Cotton Leaf Diseases
   > this work, The RF-Cott-Net [1] (a MobileViTv2-based lightweight hybrid model) is reproduced, trained on CCDPHD-11 dataset, and extend it with a Variant architecture incorporating a
06089|A Study of Synthetic and Cross-Domain Real-Data Pre-Training for Aerial Farm Monitoring
   > in a virtual environment, and real data from a slightly different domain (Cross-Domain Dataset), e.g., high-resolution remote sensing images. Both quantitative and qualitative results demonstrated … IoU, 6.4 in F1-Score, and 7.5 in Recall when compared to the Cross-Domain pre-training strategy.
06090|Invasive Plants of Russia: Inventory Results, Distribution Features and Management Issues
   > [no term] Globalization, expansion of trade relations, inter- and intra-continental population movements, development of transport links between countries have led to the active settlement of many plant species outside their natural ranges.
06091|VACoT: Rethinking Visual Data Augmentation with VLMs
   > post-hoc transformations such as denoising, VACoT substantially improves robustness on challenging and out-of-distribution inputs, especially in OCR-related adversarial scenarios. Distinct from prior approaches limited to … experiments on 13 perception benchmarks and further introduce AdvOCR to highlight the generalization benefits of post-hoc visual augmentations in adversarial scenarios.
06092|Genome-Wide Identification Analysis of the MAPKKK Gene Family in Cotton and Its Role in Development and Stress Response
   > Fusarium wilt remain poorly characterized. To address this, we conducted a systematic, cross-species analysis of the MAPKKK family in four key cotton species: Gossypium arboreum,
06093|Evidence of Sorghum Cultivation and Possible Pearl Millet in the Second Millennium BC at Kassala, Eastern Sudan
   > [no abstract]
06094|Treatment of Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) Infection with Rubus multibreatus Le’Vl Leaf Extract
   > at 0.6666µg/µL and 1.7776µg/µL respectively. This, however, is not to say that another compound was not present, that could have inhibited the bacteria. Mass spectroscopic
06095|Unveiling Undercover Cropland Inside Forests Using Landscape Variables: A Supplement to Remote Sensing Image Classification
   > extent to produce more food crops. The pattern of cropland varies among different regions depending on the traditional knowledge of farmers and availability of uncultivated
06096|Targeted DNA methylation analysis and prediction of smoking habits in blood based on massively parallel sequencing.
   > [no term] Tobacco smoking is a frequent habit sustained by > 1.3 billion people in 2020 and the leading preventable factor for health risk and premature mortality worldwide. In the forensic context,
06097|Şeker Pancarı (Beta Vulgaris) ve Yabani Akrabalarında Genom Dizileme, Güncel Yaklaşımlar
   > [no abstract]
06098|Chinese Character Recognition in Natural Scenes
   > [no abstract]
06099|Possible extinction of Eversmannia subspinosa in Eastern Alborz by 2060 due to climate change: a MaxEnt study
   > [no abstract]
06100|Neural networks to learn protein sequence–function relationships from deep mutational scanning data
   > [no term] Significance Understanding the relationship between protein sequence and function is necessary to design new and useful proteins with applications in bioenergy, medicine, and agriculture. The mapping from sequence to function
06101|Investigating the variability of precipitation and its relationship with climate modes in different regions of Sri Lanka
   > [no term] Understanding precipitation variability is vital for water resource management, agriculture, and disaster preparedness in Sri Lanka, a country highly sensitive to climate fluctuations. Sri Lanka, situated in a region influenced
06102|Analysis of structure and conservation for supporting functional evaluation of PMS2 missense variants
   > [no term] Germline defects in mismatch repair (MMR) genes are known to significantly increase the risk of developing certain types of cancers, notably colorectal and endometrial cancers. These conditions are characterized under
06103|Organ Proximity Analysis: A Novel Approach to Spleen Localization for Accurate Injury Grading in Abdominal CT Scans
   > for spleen analysis. Initially, we segment the spleen using a segmentation model trained on limited normal spleen data. We then employ a localization decision-making process to determine whether the segmented spleen exhibits an out-of-distribution shape and location. If not, we utilize the segmentation map for cropping.
06104|Quantized Contour-Based Intelligent Stegomalware Sterilizer for Smart Consumer Electronics Network
   > [no term] Malware attacks on consumer electronics networks often originate from harmful codes concealed within seemingly benign images acquired from outside the consumer network. Due to limited content inspection in consumer firewalls,
06105|Genetic divergence for qualitative traits of fruit yield and its components in custard apple (Annona squamosa L.). Indigenous accessions from northern
   > [no term] The field experiment was conducted at Research cum Instructional Farm, College of Agriculture and Research Station, Singarbhat, Kanker, Indira Gandhi Krishi Vishwavidyalaya, Raipur (C.G.) during Kharif 2013-14. The experiment was
06106|Plants causing poisoning outbreaks of livestock in South America: A review
   > at least one demonstrated outbreak of poisoning. Plants reported as toxic in other regions and present in South America, but with no confirmed outbreaks of
06107|Environmental Heavy Metal Pollution Disrupts Heading in Major Cereal Crops: Mechanisms and Implications for Food Security.
   > nutrient antagonism, and amendment strategy. The literature is now sufficient to support cross-crop synthesis, yet it remains fragmented by inconsistent stage definitions, weak reporting of
06108|IoT-based Wildlife Intrusion Detection and Alert System using Sensor Fusion and AI for Agricultural Protection
   > [no term] The electrocution of animals is so agonising that they lose their lives in the forest strip and farmlands creating immeasurable wastage of resources and threatening the lives of mankind. This
06109|A Season-Aware Feature Extraction and Hybrid Deep Architecture for Multi-Season Bean Leaf Disease Detection
   > together with a hybrid deep architecture that integrates season-modulated convolutional learning and cross-season feature fusion for healthy bean leaf. Stable and discriminative representation learning over … Seasonal Feature Stability Index of 0.976, total classification accuracy of 98.34%, and cross-season generalization performance of 97.92% are demonstrated with experimental evaluation. The pr
06110|Abstract 2570: Reprogramming T-cell networks to overcome immune evasion in ovarian cancer relapse
   > multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF) to classify 697 ovarian cancer (OC) specimens from five independent cohorts, offering the most extensive CD8+ T cell-based immune profiling to date.
06111|Global research landscape and transfer-oriented synthesis of diet-based enteric methane mitigation in ruminants (2005–2025): A bibliometric and implem
   > mitigation and to develop an implementation-oriented framework that links intervention efficacy to transferability across diverse production systems. Materials and Methods: A combined bibliometric and structured … mitigation strategies into an implementation-relevant taxonomy and to identify constraints influencing cross-country transferability, including feeding systems, delivery mechanisms, and 
06112|The Concept of Hierarchy in Ethnobiological Classification: On Kafficho Folk Botany of Enset (Ensete ventricosum) in Southwest Ethiopia
   > [no term] Enset (Ensete ventricosum [Welw] Cheesman) is one of the known Ethiopian domesticates and is among the most important food security crops cultivated in the country. In Southwest Ethiopia, more notably,
06113|SIMPD Net: A Novel Dataset for South Indian Medicinal Plants in Natural Conditions
   > [no term] Automated plant recognition in real-time environments is a challenging problem in both botanical taxonomy and computer vision. Existing databases of medicinal plants are typically prepared for specific classes of plants
06114|Ensemble uncertainty estimation improves skin cancer malignancy prediction
   > quickly deteriorates when models are challenged with data from disparate clinical sources. Generalization gaps stem from the high variability in skin lesion images due to … In this study, we apply a novel ensemble uncertainty-estimation approach to detect out-of-distribution skin lesion images from four publicly available datasets across five countries. Using our method, Supervised Autoencoders fo
06115|Abstract 7506: A gene program association study (GPAS) in prostate cancer reveals novel gene modules associated with plasticity and metastasis
   > RoBERTa for annotation of PCa datasets was developed and validated in 2 independent datasets. We compiled an atlas of 560, 492 cells from 128 PCa … localized primary PCa, Castration resistant PCa (CRPC), and metastatic PCa from 7 different sites. 166 co-expression modules were identified across 106, 998 tumor cells. 2
06116|Active Object Detection Based on a Novel Deep Q-Learning Network and Long-Term Learning Strategy for the Service Robot
   > observation viewpoint. Moreover, to overcome the differences between the training dataset and new environments as well as improving the adaptation of the AOD model, a
06117|Overview of PlantCLEF 2021: cross-domain plant identification
   > highest plant diversities in the world. The challenge was evaluated as a cross-domain classification task where the training set consisted of several hundred thousand herbarium
06118|Evaluating the productivity of ancient Pu’er tea trees (Camellia sinensis var. assamica): a multivariate modeling approach
   > of ancient Pu’er tea tree productivity and will aid future analyses of distribution shifts under climate change, as well as the identification of areas suitable
06119|SoilMoistureMapper: a GNSS-R approach for soil moisture retrieval on UAV
   > [no abstract]
06120|Saline–Alkali Tolerance Evaluation of Giant Reed (Arundo donax) Genotypes Under Saline–Alkali Stress at Seedling Stage
   > (Arundo donax) seedlings (LvZhou_No.1, LvZhou_No.3, LvZhou_No.6, LvZhou_No.11, LvZhou_No.12 and LvZhou_Var.) originating from different regions of China and Rwanda were utilized as experimental materials. This study … the photosynthetic rate (Pn), stomatal conductance (Gs) and transpiration rate (Tr) exhibited decreasing trends, reaching their lowest levels at 225 mM. In contrast, the intercellula
06121|A method for evaluating the visual quality of wetland park landscapes: a case study of qianlu lake wetland park in Wuping, China
   > using SBE values as the dependent variable, and 23 landscape features as independent variables. The SBE values and accessibility were also combined to create four
06122|Effects of Competition on the Vertical Distribution of Foliage Biomass within the Crowns of Planted Korean Pine Trees in Northeast China
   > that were destructively sampled in Liaoning Province, northeast China. A variety of independent variables, including branches, trees, and forest competition, were used as explanatory variables … the tree tip into the crown. The peak of the foliage biomass distribution shifted to the tree tip with increasing tree age. A power function,
06123|Wild Animal Intrusion Detection and Alert System using Machine Vision
   > [no term] Human-wildlife conflict (HWC) poses a growing challenge, resulting in agricultural losses, livestock predation, and safety risks, while existing mitigation methods are often inefficient or harmful, and advanced deep learning solutions
06124|Workspace simulation and trajectory planning for tomato sorting Delta robot.
   > [no abstract]
06125|Weed and Crop Classification with Domain Adaptation for Precision Agriculture
   > crop varieties. In this study, a examination is made using various unsupervised domain adaptation approaches to tackle the challenge of species diversity in the weed and crop classification task. Thus, it is aimed to measure the generalize the classification process of crop and weed species that have not been
06126|PlantSeg: A Large-Scale In-the-wild Dataset for Plant Disease Segmentation
   > [no term] Plant diseases pose significant threats to agriculture. It necessitates proper diagnosis and effective treatment to safeguard crop yields. To automate the diagnosis process, image segmentation is usually adopted for precisely
06127|Neural-Network Estimation of Parabolic Bending Integrated with MCRT–CFD Modeling
   > pilot plant. The optical analysis shows that Local Concentration Ratio (LCR) profiles degrade systematically with increasing bending magnitude, with ray-path visuals confirming significant power spillover … thermal efficiency, aligning closely with plant measurements. A lightweight neural network (NN), trained on the MCRT-generated data, is then deployed to estimate sag error directly
06128|Domain-Adaptive TinyML Model for Efficient Pest and Disease Detection in Domestic Crops: A Practical Approach for Developing Countries
   > To bridge this gap, Tiny Machine Learning (TinyML), Transfer Learning (TL), and Domain Adaptation (DA) emerge as crucial approaches for implementing AI in resource-scarce environments. … on a related task, while DA, a sub-discipline of TL, applies models trained on one distribution to a related but different distribution. This paper presents
06129|Indian Licence Plate Dataset in the wild
   > large datasets available are for countries like China, Brazil, but the model trained on these datasets does not perform well on Indian plates because the
06130|Scalable Bi-Level Reinforcement Learning for Multirobot Coverage Path Planning in Unseen Environments With Obstacles
   > time-sensitive scenarios. Resource constraints and environmental diversity further complicate the problem in unseen environments. To address these issues, a novel bi-level reinforcement learning (BiRL) algorithm
06131|Woody species with high wood density are more vulnerable to global change in South China
   > [no abstract]
06132|Unsupervised domain adaptation for in-field cotton boll status identification
   > such that traditional manual observation measures or standard classification models that are independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) often cannot obtain satisfactory results. One feasible solution to address this problem is to use domain adaptation that adapts knowledge from the original training data, a.k.a. the source domain, to the new testing data, a.k.a. the target domain. In this pa
06133|Characterization of agronomic traits and genomic diversity in a newly‐assembled radish core collection
   > [no term] Crop breeding programs are reliant on the genetic diversity of varieties and germplasm collections. Raphanus sativus L. is a root crop species of the Brassicaceae family that accounts for approximately
06134|Proyecto de factibilidad para la implementación de una finca integral en el cantón Francisco de Orellana, para el año 2015
   > [no abstract]
06135|PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF VISION-LANGUAGE MODELS IN IMAGE CLASSIFICATION
   > results on ImageNet and COCO likely reflect pre-training overlap, whereas notable performance degradation on the New Plant Diseases dataset underscores domain adaptation challenges. Our findings emphasize the need for robust, parameter-efficient, and domain-adaptive
06136|MetaPointFinder: Detection of Antimicrobial Resistance-Conferring Point Mutations (ARMs) from Metagenomic Reads
   > [no term] Background Many clinically important antimicrobial resistance (AMR) phenotypes such as fluoroquinolones and rifamycins are driven by antimicrobial resistance-conferring mutations (ARMs) in conserved chromosomal loci (e.g., gyrA, parC, rpoB). Resistome profiling
06137|Climate Warming and Seasonal Precipitation Change Interact to Limit Species Distribution Shifts across Western North America
   > increased, but also shifted upwards under conditions of cooling temperatures when precipitation decreased. This suggests increased water stress may drive upward shifts at lower elevation limits. Our results suggest that species’ elevational distribution shifts are not predictable by climate warming alone but depend on the
06138|General Biogeographic Rules and Lineage‐Specific History Shape the Assembly of Asian Tropical Megadiversity
   > remains challenging. A recently proposed biogeographic framework classifies the functional roles of different regions as “radiators,” “incubators,” “corridors” or “accumulators,” offering a useful framework to analyse this complexity. Here, we aim to provide a critical, independent test of this framework using the megadiverse tree genus Syzygium as a
06139|Monitoring of Local Landscape Changes Caused by Hostilities Using Sentinel-2 Satellite Imagery (Case Study of Donetsk Region)
   > urbanized areas, technogenic impacts, damaged infrastructure objects, and newly formed landscape elements. Another goal is to develop an effective monitoring methodology that can be applied … in the landscape structure of the Donetsk region. In particular, a noticeable decrease in the NDVI vegetation index was observed, indicating degradation of plant cover due to fires, explosions, the formation 
06140|Mitigating Mustard Downy Mildew Disease: Early Detection and Prevention through a Hybrid CNN-SVM Model
   > practical implementation into agricultural operations. Its versatility is demonstrated by its robust generalization across different regions. Analyses showing the model’s advantage over conventional disease detection approaches are … applying cutting-edge AI-driven models to agriculture to improve sustainability, raise yields, and decrease monetary losses.
06141|A Systematic Review of Deep Learning-Based Object Detection in Agriculture: Methods, Challenges, and Future Directions
   > review also highlights benchmark datasets and evaluation metrics. It addresses limitations, like domain adaptation challenges, dataset heterogeneity, and occlusion, while offering insights into prospective research
06142|Multispectral imaging for quality control of laboratory‐reared Anastrepha fraterculus (Diptera: Tephritidae) pupae
   > [no term] The sterile insect technique (SIT) has been widely used to suppress several fruit fly species. In southern Brazil, millions of sterile flies of the South American fruit fly, Anastrepha fraterculus
06143|Multimodal Remote Sensing Image Segmentation with Domain Adaptation: A Comparative Review
   > and disaster analysis... The review focuses particularly on multimodal data fusion and domain adaptation techniques applied to satellite imagery. Particular focus is placed on comparing
06144|Potential distributional shifts in North America of allelopathic invasive plant species under climate change models
   > [no term] Predictive studies play a crucial role in the study of biological invasions of terrestrial plants under possible climate change scenarios. Invasive species are recognized for their ability to modify soil
06145|Fruit Image Identification and Classification Prototype in Embedded Systems
   > rely on manual inspection, which can be time-consuming, error-prone, and inconsistent across different regions and climates. Moreover, the agricultural sector is increasingly adopting technology for … each fruit of the ‘Cerrado’: red cashews, abius and seriguelas (ombins). The external characteristics of each fruit were considered. We improved this set through finetuning
06146|Edge AI Based Wildlife Detection and Monitoring System Using YOLOv5n and LoRa Communication
   > [no term] Human-wildlife conflict is increasing rapidly in nearby environments and residential areas, leading to crop loss, property damage, and even fatalities among villagers. To address this issue, we propose an embedded
06147|Functional Characterization of Plant Peptide-Containing Sulfated Tyrosine (PSY) Family in Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.)
   > [no term] The plant peptide-containing sulfated tyrosine (PSY) family plays critical roles in plant cell proliferation and stress responses. However, the functional characterization of the PSY peptide family in wheat remains unclear.
06148|The Smart Computation of Pollution Management in Industrial Environments using Artificial Intelligence based Neural Networking Model
   > [no term] Environmental pollution started the day we changed to a lifestyle in harmony with nature. Market development is gradually self-requirement satisfaction, barter system, production-oriented development, sales-oriented development, market-oriented development, and now
06149|Few-Shot Learning for Plant-Disease Recognition in the Frequency Domain
   > shortage of data. However, the limitations of feature representation and the demanding generalization requirements are still pressing issues that need to be addressed. The recent … of feature vectors, a Gaussian-like calibration module is proposed to improve the generalization by aligning a skewed distribution with a Gaussian-like distribution. The two modules can be independent components ported 
06150|White stork nest altitude decreases as global temperatures increase
   > white stork nests. Surprisingly, we found that the altitude of nests was decreasing, despite an increase in local mean spring temperatures. The altitude of nests … and when the proportion of grass and forest cover was greater. The decrease in altitude was significant in natural nests (built by storks) but non-significant
06151|A Fine-Grained Image Classification Method Based on ConvNeXt Heatmap Localization and Contrastive Learning
   > attention erasure operation is performed to enable the network to focus on other regions useful for classification while focusing on the most discriminative features. The
06152|Classification and ordination of a Magnolia zenii community based on a self-organizing feature map
   > [no abstract]
06153|Stochastic modelling of prostate progenitor architecture
   > [no term] Prostate cancer is a significant global health concern. In the past decade, advances in mathematical models of the disease have led to clinical trials for new therapeutic protocols. However, much
06154|Abstract 914: Combination analysis of tumor-associated collagen frameworks and tumor immune phenotype of lung carcinomas using virtual staining
   > While the immune microenvironment represents an important parameter in predicting patient response, other regions such as the extracellular matrix (ECM) may yield complementary information, as
06155|Antipyretic Activities of Methanol Extract of the Ganoderma sinense
   > [no abstract]
06156|Cropping system partially offsets tillage-related degradation of soil organic carbon and aggregate properties in a 30-yr rainfed agroecosystem
   > Surface soil organic carbon (SOC) stocks (ESM for ∼0−30 cm soil depth) decreased with tillage intensity, and stocks were higher when corn was included in … diameter (mm) followed a similar trend. Soil stocks of water-stable mega-aggregates also decreased with increasing tillage intensity. In near-surface soils (0–7.5 cm), highly-erodible aggregate oPOM
06157|Genome‐wide association study and network analysis of in vitro transformation in Populus trichocarpa support key roles of diverse phytohormone pathway
   > epistasis tests implicated 81 of these candidate genes as regulators of one another. Gene ontology terms related to protein–protein interactions and transcriptional regulation are overrepresented,
06158|A Geo-AI Framework for Label-Efficient Agricultural Land-Cover Mapping with Climate-Aware Active Learning
   > the training labels used by the same-pool supervised baseline. Additional feature-group and cross-regional experiments showed that agro-environmental context improves robustness, particularly under regional domain shift. Overall, the results indicate that uncertainty-guided, diversity-aware active learning is a
06159|CTA-Net: A Cross-Temporal Attention Network for Change Detection in Remote Sensing Imagery
   > the model produces interpretable attention maps and reliable probabilistic outputs. To evaluate cross-domain generalization, we conduct a transfer learning case study on multispectral Sentinel-2 agricultural imagery. … domain, the evaluation reflects agreement with the mask generation procedure rather than independently annotated ground truth. While CTA-Net shows strong performance and reasonable 
06160|Special issue on multimedia in ecology
   > [no abstract]
06161|A New SDM-Based Approach for Assessing Climate Change Effects on Plant–Pollinator Networks
   > second lacks accuracy due to the arbitrary species removal without understanding actual distribution shifts. To address these gaps, we introduced an innovative method that involves
06162|Abstract 2065: A deep-learning approach for tissue mapping and cell phenotyping in imaging mass cytometry data analysis
   > [no term]  Imaging Mass Cytometry™ (IMC™) technology is a multiplexed imaging technique that generates high-dimensional spatial data at subcellular resolution without the complications of autofluorescence and cyclic imaging. IMC technology has
06163|Spatial Distribution Characteristics of Standing Dead Trees in the Northern Slope Forest Area of the Tianshan Mountains and the Factors Affecting Them
   > [no term] Global temperature changes are profoundly influencing air temperature, precipitation patterns, and the frequency and intensity of extreme climatic events, subjecting forest ecosystems to unprecedented stress. Shifts in climatic conditions exacerbate
06164|Measuring characteristics of wild and cultivated food environments: a scoping review
   > [no term] Global food systems are essential to sustain life; however, unhealthy diets are the leading cause of poor health and death worldwide. Natural food environments are a critical source of healthful
06165|What natural variation can teach us about resistance durability.
   > [no term] Breeding a crop variety to be resistant to a pathogen usually takes years. This is problematic because pathogens, with short generation times and fluid genomes, adapt quickly to overcome resistance.
06166|Geographic Information System Mapping of Essential Oil Producing Plants in Bangkalan Regency using K-Means Clustering
   > [no term] Essential oil is one of the high foreign exchange earning export commodities for Indonesia. Unfortunately, the high world market demand for essential oils has not been fully supplied by Indonesia.
06167|Prediction of river water quality considering spatiotemporal correlation and meteorological factors
   > on the downstream water quality is ignored and the upstream stations at different locations will have different effects on the downstream water quality. In order
06168|Dormancy Season Is Key to Submergence Tolerance of Annual Plant Seeds in the Drawdown Zone of the Three Gorges Reservoir
   > [no term] Large reservoir construction generates vast drawdown zones characterized by novel hydrological regimes that impose unprecedented selective pressures. While annual plants serve as pioneer colonists during secondary succession in these ecosystems,
06169|HPE-CogVLM: Advancing Vision Language Models With a Head Pose Grounding Task
   > in Mean Absolute Error over the current state-of-the-art CNN model, 6DRepNet, in cross-dataset evaluation. Furthermore, HPE-CogVLM outperforms both directly LoRA fine-tuned and task arithmetic-based merged
06170|Multi-Plant Disease and Severity Detection in Single Species Using Deep Learning
   > algorithm for detection of plant parts with a CNN (convolutional neural network) trained on InceptionV3 and capable of estimating severity level (Healthy, Moderate, and Severe). … uses a dataset with over 141,089 images collected from public resources and real-world conditions. The results of experiments show high efficiency of the proposed algorithm,
06171|VentAgent: When LLMs Learn to Breathe - Multi-Objective Arbitration for ARDS Ventilation
   > because such settings are common in stable patients, and thus fail to generalize to volatile or out-of-distribution phenotypes. Standard Reinforcement Learning (RL) methods also struggle with the adversarial trade-offs
06172|A high-throughput differential chemical genetic screen uncovers genotype-specific compounds altering plant growth
   > [no term] Summary The identification of chemical compounds regulating plant growth in a genetic context can greatly enhance our understanding of biological mechanisms. Here, we have developed a high-throughput phenotype-directed chemical screening
06173|TAXONOMIC ASSESSMENT OF CURCULIGO ORCHIOIDES USING matK AND rbcL DNA BARCODES
   > investigated during 2020–2021. After examining 11 accessions of C. orchioides collected from different locations in Vietnam, the obtained results revealed that using NCBI database is
06174|Using a Single RGB Frame for Real Time 3D Hand Pose Estimation in the Wild
   > state of the art as well as qualitative assessment of the method in the wild.
06175|Prediction of historical, current and future potential distribution of Rhus chinensis (Anacardiaceae) based on the optimized MaxEnt model in China
   > [no abstract]
06176|Enhancement of virulence related to polymyxin resistance caused by CrrB mutation in a hypervirulent KPC-2-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae belonging to
   > [no term] Recently, the hypervirulent and carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae has emerged. This study aimed to characterize a hypervirulent polymyxin-resistant and KPC-2-producing K. pneumoniae strain belonging to KP2-ST65 clone. The K. pneumoniae isolate
06177|Critical analysis of polycyclic tetramate macrolactam biosynthetic gene cluster phylogeny and functional diversity
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Polycyclic tetramate macrolactams (PTMs) are bioactive natural products commonly associated with certain actinobacterial and proteobacterial lineages. These molecules have been the subject of numerous structure-activity investigations since the 1970s.
06178|Vegetation density estimation in the wild
   > [no abstract]
06179|Evaluating impact of teleconnection indexes on river flow forecasting (Case study: Hablehrud River Basin)
   > [no abstract]
06180|Evaluating the Reliability of Self-Learning AI Architectures Through Multi-Domain Empirical Experiments
   > have a balanced accuracy of 93.0% and an AUC of 0.96 with domain shift and are also robust to adversarial noise. Nevertheless, the performance is
06181|Characterization of mating behaviour of the female fruit fly using machine vision
   > [no abstract]
06182|MENDER: Multi-level Feature Fusion Discovery Framework for Exposed ICS Remote Management Devices in the Wild
   > [no term] With the development of the Internet, many industrial control system (ICS) remote management devices for key infrastructure, such as solar power plants, sewage treatment, and buildings, are easily exposed to
06183|EATMamba: Evolutionary Token-Refined Vision Mamba for Tomato Leaf Disease and Pest Classification
   > for precision agriculture, yet practical deployment remains challenging due to complex backgrounds, domain shifts, and subtle inter-class visual differences. From a broader mathematical perspective, this task can be viewed as token-level representation refinement under noise, ambiguity, and distribution shift. Recent state-space-model-based vision backbones provide favorable efficiency for high-re
06184|Temporal convolutional network for Millettia speciosa Champ. classification based on electronic nose
   > its mainly application is as a medicinal material. There are MSC from different regions with different growing conditions on the market, so the quality varies
06185|Denoise and Align: Towards Source-Free UDA for Robust Panoramic Semantic Segmentation
   > in panoramic projections and the prohibitive cost of dense annotation. While Unsupervised Domain Adaptation (UDA) from label-rich pinhole-camera datasets offers a viable alternative, many real-world … privacy or proprietary reasons. This constraint significantly amplifies the core problems of domain shift, leading to unreliable pseudo-labels and dramatic performance degradation, particularly for m
06186|Mesh Interpolation Graph Network for Dynamic and Spatially Irregular Global Weather Forecasting
   > training, overlooking the influence of broader areas and limiting their ability to generalize effectively. Thus, in this work, we study global weather forecasting that is irregularly distributed and dynamically varying in practice, requiring the model to generalize to unobserved locations. To address such challenges, we propose a general Mesh … data; (2) leveraging parametric spherical harmonics l
06187|ChestPheNoT: Deployable, Auditable Label-Status-Evidence Extraction from Radiology Reports
   > remains below its CheXbert silver teacher in distribution but is competitive under distribution shift, significantly surpassing CheXbert on cross-institution detection (+2.0 F1). Task-specific training also … models can provide competitive and directly auditable radiology-report extraction without relying on external inference APIs. Code and the full extraction/judge prompts will be made available
06188|Staged Training for Robust Crop and Weed Detection Under Temporal Domain Shift Using YOLO26
   > This paper investigates temporal domain shift in crop and weed detection from aerial imagery during the growing … the YOLO26m model, trained exclusively on an early phenological stage, experiences significant degradation in mean Average Precision (mAP) on subsequent stages due to changes in
06189|SMART REPELLER: A Smart system to prevent Rhesus Macaque Trespassing in Human Settlements and Agricultural Areas
   > [no term] Rhesus macaque trespassing is a widespread problem where wild Rhesus macaque monkeys enter human settlements and agricultural areas, causing various issues such as property damage, food theft, and health risks
06190|A modifier of the morphological mutant scumbo in Neurospora crassa
   > [no abstract]
06191|IOT-Based Wild Animal Intrusion Detection System
   > [no abstract]
06192|Farmland habitat diversity in Ireland
   > [no abstract]
06193|TYPOLOGY OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY ZONES
   > [no abstract]
06194|MetaCropFollow: Few-Shot Adaptation with Meta-Learning for Under-Canopy Navigation
   > over-canopy settings - for example the tight spacing between the crop rows, degraded GPS accuracy and excessive clutter. Keypoint-based visual navigation has been shown to … in terms of lighting, season, soil and crop type mean that a domain shift will likely be encountered at some point of the robot deployment. In this paper, we explore the use of Meta-Learning to overcome this domain shift using
06195|Multimodal Segmentation Neural Network to Determine the Cause of Damage to Grasslands
   > [no term] Agricultural fields suffer from damage due to changing climate conditions and wildlife foraging. Damage incurred by wild boar is classified as the main contributing factor to grasslands damage. Such damage
06196|Robust classification of Miao embroidery patterns based on shape graph structure alignment
   > fabrics, lighting variations, material reflection, and wear and fading, leading to significant distribution shifts between data from different sources. This makes discriminative features based on … texture prone to instability. To address these issues, this paper proposes a cross-domain robust classification method for Miao embroidery patterns based on shape graph structure
06197|Teasing apart the joint effect of demography and natural selection in the birth of a contact zone
   > is crucial to predict their reaction to the current climate crisis. Vast distribution shifts induced by past environmental changes, local ecological processes, natural selection and
06198|Overcoming the Domain Gap in Contrastive Learning of Neural Action Representations
   > populations that are thought to drive actions. Standard contrastive learning and unsupervised domain adaptation techniques struggle to learn neural action representations (embeddings computed from the
06199|OSDA-ST: Advancing Open Set Domain Adaptation Through Selective Thresholding in Remote Sensing
   > be challenging to obtain for every possible domain or geographic region. Unsupervised Domain adaptation (UDA) attempts to solve this problem by transferring pixel-wise semantic knowledge from a labeled source domain to an unlabeled target domain. However, current UDA methods for remote sensing assume a corresponding label space between domains, which is often unrealistic in real-world scenarios wh
06200|Literature Review on Detection Systems for Wild Animal Intrusions
   > [no term] Agriculture is a crucial contributor to the economy, and farmers aim to increase their crop yields annually. However, with the increasing deforestation and destruction of wildlife habitats, wild animals are
06201|Phenotypic Diversity In Natural Populations of Docynia Delavayi (Franch.) Schneid.
   > [no term]  Docynia delavayi (Franch.) Schneid. is a wild fruit tree with high medicinal, edible, ecological, and ornamental values. This paper investigates the phenotypic diversity of nine traits in fruit and
06202|Cross-Dataset Generalizable Paddy Leaf Disease Detection via ViT–CNN Fusion and Domain-Specific Preprocessing
   > this study. In order to improve the visibility of illness regions and decrease overfitting, the preprocessing pipeline integrates conventional and GAN-based data augmentation, edge detection, … real-time scenarios. Robustness in varied contexts is highlighted by the low performance degradation indicated by cross-dataset generalization tests. This system provides a workable answer to the problem of
06203|Tea Leaf Disease Classification and Out-of-Distribution Detection Using Deep Learning
   > proposes a deep learning-based framework for multi-class tea leaf disease classification and Out-of-Distribution (OOD) recognition using the EfficientNet-B0 backbone augmented with a prototype-based classification head … integrates extensive data augmentation, stratified sampling, and energy-based OOD scoring to enhance generalization and interpretability. Experimental results demonstrate that the
06204|Characterization, classification, and suitability evaluation of some soils in the floodplains of River Niger, Kogi East, Nigeria for rice, maize, cass
   > using a free survey technique. Four pedons representing four soils located at different sites in the floodplain were studied. The environs and the profiles of
06205|Phenotypic screen with deep learning finds cardioprotective molecules
   > [no abstract]
06206|Land cover and flood type govern the detection limits of satellite-based flood mapping across diverse global flood events
   > change makes satellite-based inundation mapping essential for disaster response. Geospatial foundation models pretrained on satellite archives offer geographic transferability, but their operational reliability across diverse, unseen events remains uncharacterized. Here we deploy Prithvi-EO-2.0 across 19 out-of-distribution flood events (2017-2025) spanning six continents, eight climate zones, and
06207|An Interpretable and Efficient Deep Learning Framework for Leaf Disease Detection in Agriculture
   > trust. Evaluation metrics, including confusion matrix, precision, recall, and F1-score, indicate high generalization performance across all classes.This work emphasizes not only accuracy but also the … agronomists in early disease diagnosis. Future work will explore real-world testing and cross-crop generalization to further validate its practical impact.
06208|A Two-Stage Dual-Modality Model for Facial Emotional Expression Recognition
   > [no term] This paper addresses the expression (EXPR) recognition challenge in the 10th Affective Behavior Analysis in-the-Wild (ABAW) workshop and competition, which requires frame-level classification of eight facial emotional expressions from unconstrained
06209|SalviaNet: A Machine Learning-based Leaf Signature Profiling and Species Identification of the Endemic Genus Salvia in Central Asia
   > for in situ and in vivo applications especially in classifying leaf species in the wild. Out of 41 recorded Salvia species, 25 are endemic to
06210|Prior-matched dual-branch network for unsupervised domain-adaptive plant disease classification
   > Plant disease recognition models trained on laboratory images often suffer from severe performance degradation when deployed on field images. This paper proposes a prior-matched dual-branch network for unsupervised domain adaptation to this issue. The proposed method uses a shared-weight encoder to … method avoids domain discriminators and unstable minimax optimization. Empirical results on three 
06211|Ultralytics YOLO Evolution: An Overview of YOLO26, YOLO11, YOLOv8 and YOLOv5 Object Detectors for Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
   > surveillance, and manufacturing. Finally, challenges involving dense scenes, CNN-Transformer integration, open-vocabulary perception, domain generalization, and hardware-aware optimization are discussed as directions for future YOLO systems.
06212|PHYSOR2020: TRANSITION TO A SCALABLE NUCLEAR FUTURE
   > based on simulated data. In the reported work, the approach was also tested on simulated data. The simulations were carried out in the frequency domain … vibrations. In all those cases, various frequencies were considered and, when relevant, different locations of the perturbations and different vibration modes were taken into account.
06213|Incentive mechanism of different agricultural models to agricultural technology information management system
   > variable method to study the application status of agricultural information technology in different regions and different agricultural models, and the agricultural technology information under different
06214|Hyperspectral Image Classification using Few Shot Domain Adaptation and Active Learning
   > as manual annotation is labor-intensive and time-consuming. To address this, we leverage Domain Adaptation, a transfer learning technique that facilitates knowledge transfer from a well-labeled source domain to a sparsely labeled or unlabeled target domain. In this paper, we focus on few-shot Domain Adaptation for HSI classification, where only a limited number of labeled target … fine-tune a clas
06215|Racism and Its Effect on Cannabis Research
   > [no term] Scientific research depends on legitimacy. We challenge legitimacy by questioning methods, researchers, funders, bias, and myriad other means. Popular culture has created a cottage industry on the dangers of the
06216|Going Deeper on BioImages Classification: A Plant Leaf Dataset Case Study
   > [no abstract]
06217|RF-DETR Object Detection vs YOLOv12 : A Study of Transformer-based and CNN-based Architectures for Single-Class and Multi-Class Greenfruit Detection i
   > multi-class (occluded and non-occluded greenfruits) annotations to assess model performance under dynamic real-world conditions. RF-DETR object detection model, utilizing a DINOv2 backbone and deformable attention,
06218|Automatic Detection of Spots on Coffee Leaves using Deep Learning
   > interpretability, allowing for a better understanding of how the network focuses on different regions of the leaf during the detection process. The YOLOv10-Nano model has
06219|Multi-Temporal Sentinel-2 Based Soil pH Estimation with Cross-Field Validation
   > and a multilayer perceptron, were evaluated under two spatially rigorous validation strategies: Leave-One-Field-Out cross-validation and independent field hold-out testing. Ensemble tree-based models provide the most consistent cross-field performance, … difference of approximately 0.01 pH units in some scenarios. Although pixel-level predictions generalize poorly to unseen fields, field-level mea
06220|A modifier of the morphological mutant scumbo in Neurospora crassa
   > [no abstract]
06221|Does Your VFM Speak Plant? The Botanical Grammar of Vision Foundation Models for Object Detection
   > respond divergently to prompt structure: conditions that optimize one architecture can collapse another. Applying model-specific combinatorial prompts yields substantial gains over a naive species-name baseline, … +0.362 mAP@0.5 for OWLv2 on synthetic cowpea flower data. To evaluate cross-task generalization, we use an LLM to translate the discovered axis structure to a
06222|Safeguarding Ecosystem Services: A Methodological Framework to Buffer the Joint Effect of Habitat Configuration and Climate Change
   > protected or restored, could facilitate the dispersal and establishment of bees during distribution shifts. Our results also suggest that coffee plantations from eastern São Paulo
06223|CoTBox-TTT: Grounding Medical VQA with Visual Chain-of-Thought Boxes During Test-time Training
   > answering could support clinical decision making, yet current systems often fail under domain shift and produce answers that are weakly grounded in image evidence. This … impractical at deployment time. We address this setting with CoTBox-TTT, an evidence-first test-time training approach that adapts a vision-language model at inference while keeping all
06224|Cognitive Autonomy for Machine-Centric IoT: A Foundation-Model Blueprint for Secure, Real-Time Automation at the Edge
   > environmental signals), adaptive actuation, and memory-augmented reasoning to deliver robust control under distribution shifts and incomplete data. The framework integrates low-latency model compression (pruning, quantization) … edge–cloud offloading, and retrieval-augmented decision loops to achieve real-time performance without sacrificing generalization. To address the realities of industrial m
06225|Study of Genetic Diversity of Some Allium L. Species Based on ISSR Markers in Kurdistan Province
   > [no term] Genus Allium L. contains very taxonomically complex sections, especially the subgenus Melanocrommyum . The systematic position of the species in each section has been revised many times over time. In
06226|Marine and Coastal Fisheries
   > [no abstract]
06227|A convenient method for the accurate identification of Citri Reticulatae Pericarpium using image and multi-stream
   > complementary visual details. A channel-level feature interaction module further enhances robustness through cross-region feature integration. Thirdly, a meta-learning module enables rapid adaptation to images captured
06228|Multimodal Data Fusion of Image and Sensor Data for Precision Fruit Quality Evaluation
   > increasing use of attentional methods that adaptively weight noisy modalities. To accelerate lab-to-field translation, we recommend research on lightweight fusion architectures, standardized benchmark datasets, explainable AI tools, and self-supervised domain adaptation. Overall, the use of multimodal fusion offers a clear path toward
06229|Systematic Evaluation of Cross-Dataset Domain Shift and Shortcut Learning in Lightweight CNNs for Tomato Disease Classification
   > datasets and real-world field conditions. This study presents a rigorous investigation into cross-dataset domain shift and shortcut learning in lightweight convolutional neural networks (CNNs). Using PlantVillage … Domain drops ranged from 54.2% to 60.1%, with ShuffleNetV2 achieving the best cross-dataset accuracy (44.63%), outperforming the larger ResNet18 (39.07%). Phase-7 experiments showed mod
06230|Distribution of Therapeutic Efficacy of Ranunculales Plants Used by Ethnic Minorities on the Phylogenetic Tree of Chinese Species
   > [no term] The medicinal properties of plants can be evolutionarily predicted by phylogeny-based methods, which, however, have not been used to explore the regularity of therapeutic effects of Chinese plants utilized by
06231|MODEL UPDATING OF HYPERSPECTRAL IMAGING DATA FOR VARIETY DISCRIMINATION OF MAIZE SEEDS HARVESTED IN DIFFERENT YEARS BY CLUSTERING ALGORITHM
   > [no abstract]
06232|Early Detection of Diabetic Retinopathy Using Novel Pre-Processing of Retinal Fundus Images
   > a recall score of 99.56%, outperforming baseline CNN and transfer learning models. Cross-dataset evaluation confirmed strong generalization and interpretability, bridging the gap between handcrafted medical preprocessing and modern deep
06233|Feature selection for quality prediction under distribution shift
   > Distribution shifts due to the system and the external reasons in industrial processes are very common, which devastates the predictions of
06234|A comprehensive hog plum leaf disease dataset for enhanced detection and classification
   > better agricultural productivity along with sustainability. These images have been collected from different regions of Bangladesh. In this work, two classes were used: ‘Healthy’ and
06235|Plantation Bench: A Multiscale, Multimodal Remote Sensing Benchmark for Plantation Mapping Under Distribution Shift
   > tree dataset. Samples are structured with different domains to account for real-world distribution shifts to study the interplay of domain generalization with various feature attributes of remotely sensed data. We test how
06236|USGS
   > [no abstract]
06237|Motion Detection and Pest Prevention System in Rice Plants Using Deep Learning
   > [no term] Agriculture has a major role in human life to provide a source of food. One of the staple food sources is rice, which is derived from paddy. In the development
06238|Changes in quality during maturation of physalis fruit
   > fully ripen fruits of P. peruviana with the two species produced in different locations were used six replications and the means compared by Dunnett's test
06239|The first complete chloroplast genome sequence of Pentaphragma spicatum Merr. (Pentaphragmataceae) and phylogenetic analysis
   > [no term] Abstract Pentaphragma spicatum Merr. is an endemic wild edible plant of China belonging to the Pentaphragmataceae family. It is widely consumed by Shangsi County resident in Guangxi Fangchenggang. Initially, Pentaphragma
06240|Decoupled Pipeline with Proposal Reranking and Score Fusion for Positive-Unlabeled Marine Species Detection
   > The provided training labels are sparse, while the hidden test set is out-of-distribution relative to the training imagery, creating both annotation incompleteness and source-shift challenges.
06241|Improved Potato Disease Classification: Synergy of CNN and SVM Models
   > environmentally friendly farming. For each illness class, 655–725 instances demonstrate the model's cross-dataset performance. With 98% accuracy, the classification model can identify potato illnesses. Global,
06242|Climate Change and Agricultural Insect Pests: Ecological Mechanisms, Crop Productivity Impacts and Climate Adaptation Strategies
   > is given to temperature increases, changes in precipitation and humidity regimes, geographical distribution shifts, invasive species expansion, and phenological mismatches. Furthermore, innovative adaptation strategies including
06243|Analisis Struktur Perekonomian dan Distribusi Pendapatandi Kabupaten Tulang Bawang Tahun 2009-2013
   > [no abstract]
06244|Thai-English Multiscript Text Image (TEMS) Dataset for Multiscript Image-Based Text Recognition
   > Publicly available datasets containing Thai and English scene text captured under unconstrained real-world conditions remain limited, particularly for multilingual and mixed-script text recognition. To address
06245|Ultra-Short-Term Photovoltaic Power Forecasting via Contrastive Graph Learning
   > on temporal dependencies or site-specific supervision. As a result, they often underutilize cross-site spatial correlations and exhibit limited robustness under distribution shifts. This paper proposes a contrastive graph learning framework for ultra-short-term PV … proposed approach consistently outperforms conventional learning-based baselines in both forecasting accuracy and generalization acro
06246|Assessing agronomic performance, chocolate spot resistance, and heat tolerance for diverse Vicia faba genotypes under varying environmental conditions
   > The faba bean genotypes were evaluated at two sowing dates in two different locations during two growing seasons. The evaluated eleven faba bean genotypes were
06247|Clinical Text Reports to Stratify Patients Affected with Myeloid Neoplasms Using Natural Language Processing
   > to stratifications performed on clinical and genomic data. Finally, we evaluate the domain adaptation by comparing the model to other pre-trained non-contextualized ones. Pseudo perplexity … obtained high PPS, accuracy and F1 scores, outperforming the other models also trained on generic clinical domains. Conclusion: Domain-adapted language models are able to understand
06248|Fine-Grained Visual Classification of Plant Species In The Wild: Object Detection as A Reinforced Means of Attention
   > Plant species identification in the wild is a difficult problem in part due to the high
06249|Small-Scale Environmental Heterogeneity Enhances Tree Recruitment through Carbon Recharge and Water Use Diversification
   > [no term] Studying regeneration processes in oak-dominated forests requires a multi-faceted approach that considers local factors, disturbances, management actions, and tree responses. Our aims were to quantify the carbon and water-use responses
06250|Identification of Dissolved Organic Matter Origin Using Molecular Level Analysis Methods
   > spectrometry, size exclusion chromatography, and fluorescence spectrometry. NOM was collected from three different sites: river water, wetland, and wastewater treatment plant effluent. The molecular size
06251|Reply to “Murine Roseolovirus, Historically Known as Murine Thymic Lymphotropic Virus”
   > [no abstract]
06252|Towards high-throughput mouse embryonic phenotyping: a novel approach to classifying ventricular septal defects
   > [no abstract]
06253|A source-free unsupervised domain adaptation method for cross-regional and cross-time crop mapping from satellite image time series
   > [no abstract]
06254|A computer vision system for recognizing plant species in the wild using convolutional neural networks
   > [no abstract]
06255|Research and Publication on the Horticultural and Medicinal Use of Pepper from 2005-2014: A Bibliometric Analysis
   > [no abstract]
06256|Pantanal flood pulse reveals constitutive and plastic features of two wild rice species (Poaceae, Oryzoideae): implications for taxonomy, systematics,
   > [no abstract]
06257|LangDA: Building Context-Awareness via Language for Domain Adaptive Semantic Segmentation
   > Unsupervised domain adaptation for semantic segmentation (DASS) aims to transfer knowledge from a label-rich source domain to a target domain with no labels. Two key approaches in DASS are (1) vision-only … crops, and (2) language-based approaches that use generic class-wise prompts informed by target domain (e.g."a {snowy} photo of a {class}"). However, the former is susceptible to noisy pseudo-l
06258|Sentinel-2 Analysis for Classification of Winter Crops in Uruguay
   > obtained high precision and recall values for rapeseed and results comparable with other regions’ work for wheat and barley.
06259|XIMR-Net: A Robust Deep Learning Model for Automated Lemon Leaf Disease Classification
   > losses. While deep learning offers solutions, existing models often lack robustness under real-world conditions like variable lighting and disease severity. This study introduces XIMR-Net, an
06260|Wild Animal Movement Detection and Alert System
   > [no term] The “Wild Animal Movement Detection and Alert System” repr esents an innovative approach to wildlife monitoring, leveraging advancements in artificial intelligence and embedded systems to track and analyze animal activity
06261|OpenMapFlow: A Library for Rapid Map Creation with Machine Learning and Remote Sensing Data
   > sensing follows the traditional practice of reporting metrics on a set of independent, geographically-sparse samples and does not perform dense predictions. To reduce the labor … We hope this library will stimulate novel research in areas such as domain shift, unsupervised learning, and societally-relevant applications and lessen the barrier to adopting
06262|LLM-Enhanced Architecture Design for Lightweight Small-Object Detection in Low-Altitude Remote Sensing
   > contains small objects, large scale variation, complex backgrounds, occlusion, motion blur, and domain shifts across scenes, making lightweight object detection difficult. Meanwhile, manually designed detectors
06263|Australian Animal Species Selection and Image Data Collection
   > [no term] Using computer image-processing technology for animal identification has improved labour-intensive agriculture and animal husbandry efficiency and accuracy. Additionally, camera traps have provided researchers with abundant biodiversity and wildlife habitat conservation
06264|MIA-Former: Efficient and Robust Vision Transformers via Multi-grained Input-Adaptation
   > model depth. In parallel, different images are of varied complexity and their different regions can contain various levels of visual information, e.g., a sky background
06265|Most sleep does not serve a vital function: Evidence from Drosophila melanogaster
   > [no term] Sleepless fruit flies live, an unexpected finding that provides a new perspective on sleep for this and perhaps other species. Sleep appears to be a universally conserved phenomenon among the
06266|Multi-Criteria Analysis for Geospatialization of Potential Areas for Water Reuse in Irrigated Agriculture in Hydrographic Regions
   > and the seasonal availability of fresh water are becoming increasingly common in different regions of the world. One solution to tackle this problem is the
06267|Resting-state functional dynamics alterations relate to plasma amyloid markers and explain memory impairments in the TgF344-AD model of Alzheimer’s di
   > [no term] Resting-state (RS) fMRI studies of Alzheimer’s disease’s (AD) impact on brain function commonly use functional connectivity (FC), ignoring short-timescale network dynamics, captured by co-activation patterns (CAPs), shown to accurately classify
06268|Prescribed fire has slight influence on Roosevelt elk population dynamics
   > [no abstract]
06269|Non-destructive Analysis of Volatile Compounds for Geographical Identification of Rice CURRENT STATUS: REVIEW
   > [no abstract]
06270|Applying Computer Vision Technology to Triaxial Deformation Monitoring of Remedial Construction for a Landslide
   > [no term]  The paper explores a new instrument of computer vision to measure three-dimension deformation with an Internet of Things (IoT) system including Raspberry Pi, digital cameras and OpenCV programs in
06271|Bayesian Networks Improve Out-of-Distribution Calibration for Agribusiness Delinquency Risk Assessment
   > (limited) data assets with expert domain knowledge. Our approach is likely to generalize to any credit risk assessment task where small sample sizes is of
06272|Artificial intelligence-driven gastrointestinal functional assessment: multimodal imaging, digital biomarkers, and real-time monitoring
   > estimation, and explainable AI. We then discuss barriers to translation—standardization and interoperability, external validation under dataset shift, privacy and governance, and workflow integration—and outline practical directions for building
06273|Classifying the landscape units of the Mahananda River basin using hydrogeomorphic diversity model
   > [no abstract]
06274|Whole Genome Landscape Analysis of Homologous Recombination Deficiency in a Pan-Cancer Cohort
   > [no abstract]
06275|Invasive Buffelgrass, Cenchrus ciliaris, Balances Opportunistic Acquisition of Foliar fungi With Host and Environmental Filtering in Its Introduced Ra
   > plants acquire influence a plant's ability to establish and spread in this new environment. Here, we aimed to assess whether invasive C. ciliaris hosts similar … co‐introduction. Fungal communities within the introduced range contained a higher proportion of generalist symbionts and increased heterogeneity of foliar communities than in its native range.
06276|Kidins220/ ARMS association with Nav channels
   > [no abstract]
06277|Graph Reinforcement Learning for Wireless Control Systems: Large-Scale Resource Allocation over Interference Channels
   > [no abstract]
06278|Real-time feature recognition of cantaloupe flowers and buds in greenhouse based on deep learning for pollination robot
   > with a lightweight pose head that localizes pistil/stamen keypoints for orientation-aware targeting. Trained on 1,200 RGB–depth pairs (augmented to ~7,200) collected in Vietnamese greenhouses, our … RTMDet, and a YOLOv10 RGB-only variant, our method improves accuracy and reduces degradation under occlusion (−1.8% vs 5.8%) and harsh lighting (−1.3% vs 4.0%). Cross-site evaluation maintains 94.0% mA
06279|A Statistical Analysis of Drought and Fire Weather Indicators in the Context of Climate Change: The Case of the Attica Region, Greece
   > [no term] As warmer and drier conditions associated with global warming are projected to increase in southern Europe, the Mediterranean countries are currently the most prone to wildfire danger. In the present
06280|Modernization Challenges and Development Proposals from Chinese Cabbage Logistics at Garak Wholesale Market
   > [no term] Kimchi is the most traditional side dish, and a staple food for the average Korean table. Cabbage, the primary ingredient for Kimchi, is consequently the most widely consumed vegetable in
06281|Deep Architectures Fail to Generalize: A Lightweight Alternative for Agricultural Domain Transfer in Hyperspectral Images
   > that explicitly balances spatial nearness with spectral similarity. The proposed method is trained on closed-set datasets, and it generalizes well to open-set agricultural scenarios that include both class distribution shifts and presence of novel and absence of known classes. This scenario … architectures although exhibit high accuracy under data rich conditions, often show limited transferabilit
06282|Trehalose-6-phosphate promotes fermentation and glucose repression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae
   > [no term] The yeast trehalose-6-phosphate synthase (Tps1) catalyzes the formation of trehalose-6-phosphate (T6P) in trehalose synthesis. Besides, Tps1 plays a key role in carbon and energy homeostasis in this microbial cell, as
06283|"Front Matter: Volume 9637", Proc. SPIE 9637, Remote Sensing for Agriculture, Ecosystems, and Hydrology XVI
   > [no abstract]
06284|Medoid Prototype Alignment for Cross-Plant Unknown Attack Detection in Industrial Control Systems
   > Deploying an intrusion detector trained in one industrial plant to another remains difficult because Industrial Control System (ICS) traffic is highly site-dependent, labels are scarce, and unseen attacks often appear after deployment. To address this challenge, this paper introduces … preserving source-domain discrimination and encouraging confident target predictions. This strategy reduces noisy
06285|Measuring urban quality and change through the detection of physical attributes of decay
   > identifying urban features. However, the reliability and consistency of these methods across different locations and time remains largely unexplored. We aim to develop a comprehensive
06286|Cross-species ALP-associated gene signature from canine osteosarcoma stratifies metastatic status in human osteosarcoma: A comparative oncology approa
   > signature. This signature was mapped to human orthologs and evaluated in two independent human OSA transcriptomic cohorts for metastatic-status classification. Candidate genes were further assessed
06287|Robust Crop Image Segmentation Using Attention-Enhanced Transformers with MAE Pretraining and Ensemble Refinement
   > [no abstract]
06288|Transfer Learning for Robust Masked Face Recognition
   > redaction and activation function.To train our system, we used the Labeled Faces in the Wild (LFW). From the original facial recognition data set, a masked
06289|Bridging the Domain Gap: Advanced Data Augmentation and Domain Adaptation for Robust Plant Disease Detection in Field Conditions
   > Due to significant domain shift, deep learning models trained on regulated “lab” datasets like PlantVillage frequently fail when used in actual agricultural settings. Using EfficientNet-B0 trained on PlantVillage and tested on the inthe-wild PlantDoc dataset, this work offers a methodical and quantitative investigation of this lab-to-field degeneration. The model shows a major generalization failu
06290|Mitigating Brown-Outs: Fair Distribution of Locally Sourced Energy in Smart Grids
   > [no abstract]
06291|Investigation and Research on Distribution of Aquatic Plants and Their Application Frequency in Chengde City
   > [no abstract]
06292|Rethinking Backdoor Detection Evaluation for Language Models
   > on standard benchmarks, it is unclear whether they can robustly identify backdoors in the wild. In this paper, we examine the robustness of backdoor detectors … inversion or meta classifiers highly depends on how intensely the model is trained on poisoned data. Specifically, backdoors planted with more aggressive or more conservative
06293|Pemetaan UMKM Batu Bata Desa Srimulyo Melalui Pendataan dan Digitalisasi Berbasis Sistem Informasi Geografis
   > [no term] One form of service activity in Real Work Lectures (KKN) is by collecting data and digitizing Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the Village. Therefore, research was carried out
06294|Research on Citrus Leaf Disease Recognition Using Class-Agnostic Contrastive Learning and Supervised Organizational Mapping
   > alternatives to manual inspection, existing methods face two understudied challenges: 1) performance degradation in cluttered real-world conditions, and 2) ineffective feature separation for randomly distributed lesions with diverse
06295|Estimation of Forage Production in the Algerian Steppe using Gaussian Process Regression
   > However, the irrational use of this resource makes the vegetation cover more degraded and replaced by sand. To preserve this area and benefit from this … rational ways. Such management would allow farmers and governors to minimize the degradation and maximize the benefit of livestock. For such purpose, a tool to
06296|A Study on the Flora and its Introduced Disturbing Plants in Damyang Area of Mudeungsan National Park, Korea
   > [no abstract]
06297|Phenology and health of Stenocereus Queretaroensis: A multimodal dataset combining multispectral imagery and spectrophotometry
   > [no term] This data article presents a multimodal, non-invasive dataset documenting the physiology and growth stages of Stenocereus queretaroensis (pitayo), a native species from the arid and semi-arid regions of Southern Zacatecas,
06298|Comparative Evaluation of Transfer Learning Models for Pest Detection
   > Kaggle competition. The dataset comprises 12 different types of pests taken in real-world conditions with complex backgrounds, varying scales, and intra-class similarities. Five pretrained CNN
06299|On the Real-Time Semantic Segmentation of Aphid Clusters in the Wild
   > [no term] Aphid infestations can cause extensive damage to wheat and sorghum fields and spread plant viruses, resulting in significant yield losses in agriculture. To address this issue, farmers often rely on
06300|Comparative Analysis of CutMix and MixUp Augmentation for Tomato Leaf Disease Classification using EfficientNetV2-M
   > challenges due to limited and imbalanced datasets, leading to overfitting and poor generalization. This study presents a comprehensive evaluation of two advanced data augmentation techniques—CutMix … in agricultural computer vision applications, particularly for tomato disease detection systems in real-world conditions.
06301|Domain Adaptation and Active Learning for Fine-Grained Recognition in the Field of Biodiversity
   > are insufficient annotated training samples. Therefore, the topic of transfer learning respectively domain adaptation is particularly important. In this work, we investigate to what extent unsupervised domain adaptation can be used for fine-grained recognition in a biodiversity context to … Normalization in combination with Weight Standardization, on the classifier. We discovered that domain adapt
06302|Sensor Anomalies Characterization and Detection via Machine Learning Methods for Nuclear Power Plants
   > (PWR) conditions and introduces typical sensor performance and anomalies. The method employs data partitioning, linear regression for preprocessing, and a K-means clustering algorithm for anomaly
06303|An Optimization Framework for Efficient Vision-Based Autonomous Drone Navigation
   > [no term] Fully autonomous drones are a new emerging field that has enabled many applications such as gas source leakage localization, wild-fire detection, smart agriculture, and search and rescue missions in unknown
06304|Automated Animal Intrusion Detection and Repellent Activation in Crop Fields
   > [no term] This paper proposes an artificial intelligence– based system to monitor animal intrusion in agricultural fields. The proposed system uses a computer vision model implemented on a Raspberry Pi–based edge device
06305|Reliability-Driven Prototype Learning for Cross-Domain Few-Shot Agricultural Hyperspectral Image Classification
   > Agricultural hyperspectral image (HSI) classification remains difficult under cross-domain few-shot settings, as class prototypes must be estimated from only a few … Existing methods commonly treat class prototypes as deterministic point estimates and perform cross-domain alignment without explicitly considering prototype reliability or interclass structural consistency. This article
06306|A comprehensive lemongrass (Cymbopogon citratus) leaf dataset for agricultural research and disease prevention
   > leaf images, captured with high quality camera of a mobile phone in real-world conditions. The dataset classifies leaves as “Dried,” “Healthy,” or “Unhealthy,” making it
06307|Genetic Diversity and Classification of Wild Arum (Araceae)Species Using Morphological Characters in Iran
   > [no abstract]
06308|μxer: Cross-Domain Split Mixer-Based Deep Learning Approach for Healthcare and Eco-Health
   > This paper presents $\mu$ xer, a deep learning architecture designed for cross-domain image classification in both healthcare and eco-health applications. The model leverages split … is tailored for edge AI deployment and addresses critical challenges such as domain shifts, limited labeled data, and inference constraints. It integrates multitask learning and CycleGAN-based domain adaptation. This 
06309|Cross-Subject & Cross-Dataset Subject Transfer in Motor Imagery BCI systems*
   > for this problem. This study assess the utility of deep learning models, trained on MI patterns from other subjects enrolled in a) the same study (Cross-Subject Within-Dataset (CSWD)) or b) across multiple studies (Cross-Subject Cross-Dataset (CSCD)), for stratifying EEG patterns representing 3 different MI tasks. The aim
06310|Computer-aided diagnosis with radiogenomics: analysis of the relationship between genotype and morphological changes of the brain magnetic resonance i
   > [no abstract]
06311|Enhancing UAV small-object detection via spatial–frequency synergy and polarity-aware attention
   > [no abstract]
06312|From Agriculture 4.0 to Human-Centered Agriculture 5.0: Integrating AI, IoT, Robotics, Digital Twins, and Responsible Governance for Sustainable Farmi
   > Agricultural data remain sparse, imbalanced, heterogeneous, context-dependent, and vulnerable to sensor failure, distribution shift, weak validation, and poor interoperability. The most consequential shift in the
06313|Fundamental vision–language models for crop-weed detection
   > herbicide usage. Conventional deep learning models for crop-weed detection often encounter performance degradation in data-scarce scenarios commonly observed in agricultural vision tasks. Recent advances in … of 91.3% AP@50 and 91.0% AP@50, respectively, while Grounding DINO showed better cross-season performance, improving AP@50 by 12.1% and 7.7% on the 2021–2023 and 2024 datasets, respectively, 
06314|Self-Supervised Learning Models for Autonomous Robotic Navigation
   > planning in unknown environments. Finally, the paper discusses key challenges such as domain adaptation, computational efficiency, safety, and continual learning, highlighting SSL's potential to enable
06315|Multi-Angle Spectroscopic Remote Sensing of Arctic Vegetation Biochemical and Biophysical Properties
   > [no term] Estimating the spatial distribution of foliar pigments and canopy structural components with remote sensing can serve as an important approach for monitoring plant community characteristics, as spatially explicit measurements of
06316|Spatial Consistency Loss for Training Multi-Label Classifiers from Single-Label Annotations
   > Multi-label image classification is more applicable "in the wild" than single-label classification, as natural images usually contain multiple objects.
06317|Fault Diagnosis for Key Nuclear Power Plant Systems and Equipment Based on Knowledge Graphs and Bayesian Networks
   > fault severity levels, using signed directed graphs (SDGs), support vector machines (SVMs), domain generalization softmax (DG-softmax) and long short-term memory (LSTM) as benchmarks. Experimental results
06318|A Data-Driven Velocity and Altitude Prediction System With Operation-Mode Recognition for Hybrid Electric Mining Trucks
   > recognition and optimization algorithms in improving predictive accuracy. Cross-mine tests show strong transferability across different geographic locations. This framework provides reliable feedforward data for energy
06319|Semi-Supervised Domain Adaptation for Holistic Counting under Label Gap
   > This paper proposes a novel approach for semi-supervised domain adaptation for holistic regression tasks, where a DNN predicts a continuous value y∈R given an input image x. The current literature generally lacks specific domain adaptation approaches for this task, as most of them mostly focus on … original label range—that was previously normalised—a handful of annotated images from the target do
06320|Reading the Cell, Designing the Cure: Perturbation-Conditioned Molecular Diffusion for Function-Oriented Drug Design
   > from noisy transcriptomic data. Extensive evaluations on both standard benchmarks and rigorous out-of-distribution protocols demonstrate that \themodel{} consistently outperforms strong baselines in structural quality and
06321|Climate mitigation through urban forests: ecosystem services and species diversity in Rimba Ilmu, Universiti Malaya, Malaysia
   > [no abstract]
06322|Automatic Recognition of Cucumber Leaf Disease based on Convolution Neural Networks
   > showed that the CNN was a qualified technique for spotting cucumber diseases in the wild.
06323|Real-Time Wild Animal Intrusion Detection and Repellent System Using YOLOv5n and Predator Scent
   > alert to the farmer via GSM module and cloud. The model was trained on a custom dataset and shows decent accuracy with improving performance metrics
06324|Recognition Method of Tomato Ripeness Based on YOLOv7 and YOLOv8
   > YOLOv8 models, compare their performance, and evaluate YOLOv8's robustness under various simulated real-world conditions. Trained on a dataset of unripe, ripe, and rotten tomatoes, YOLOv8 demonstrated superior
06325|The unrealized potential of herbaria for global change biology
   > [no term] Plant and fungal specimens in herbaria are becoming primary resources for investigating how plant phenology and geographic distributions shift with climate change, greatly expanding inferences across spatial, temporal, and phylogenetic
06326|Effects of different drip irrigation patterns on water distribution in potted Yunnan red loam and yellow-sand soil and pepper growth
   > [no term] It is important to study the law of water distribution in potted soil and the appropriate irrigation methods for improving the level of water-saving irrigation in greenhouse cultivation. In this
06327|StableTTA: Improving Vision Model Performance by Training-free Test-Time Adaptation Methods
   > address both efficiency challenges and this inconsistency, we propose StableTTA, a training-free test-time adaptation method with two variants. StableTTA-I targets coherent-batch inference settings, where temporally … inference-time semantic coherence and aggregation stability provide useful perspectives for improving practical test-time adaptation systems.
06328|Can niche plasticity promote biodiversity-productivity relationships through increased complementarity?
   > [no abstract]
06329|In vitro callus induction and shoot regeneration potentials in some snake melon accessions collected from different regions in Egypt
   > Several snake melon genotypes are grown in different locations in Egypt. However, the relationships and the degree of relatness among … and shoot regeneration potential. Nine snake melon accessions (acc.) were collected from different regions in Egypt, including acc.3 (Damietta), acc.7 (Bany Swief), acc.8 (Fayoum), acc.9
06330|Trait‐dependent distributional shifts in fruiting of common British fungi
   > [no abstract]
06331|ANI-SOUL –A Voice-Assisted System for Animal Identification and Classification
   > [no term] According to the current breakdown of the world’s land area, 10% of the planet is covered in glaciers, 19% is desert, 1% is freshwater, 11% is grassland, and just 37%
06332|Genetic diversity analysis of Iris germanica cultivars based on ISSR and SRAP molecular markers
   > similarity coefficients, and SRAP marker could also make the same species from different regions first cluster into one group based on classifying the similar phenotypic
06333|Mineral composition of wild relatives and introgressive forms in wheat selection
   > with varieties) to crosses with introgressive forms is usually accompanied by a decrease in the total metabolic level, but it varies in cultivars and wild
06334|Cloud-Edge Integrated Deep Learning for Medicinal Plant Disease Detection: A Case Study on Tulsi (Basil)
   > cloud as well as hybrid models. It also characterizes statistical significance testing, cross-dataset validation, and deployment issues of latency, cost, and IoT sustainability as gaps
06335|Machine Learning and Deep Learning for Soil and Plant Nutrient Management in Agriculture
   > hinder their widespread application. To address these challenges, techniques like transfer learning, domain adaptation, and Explainable AI (XAI) have been identified as promising solutions to
06336|Effects of deep tillage on yield of maize based on national and regional scales: A meta-analysis.
   > [no abstract]
06337|Satellite Image Segmentation Using Federated Learning: A Privacy Preserving Approach
   > to extract meaningful information from the images. By segmenting the image into different regions, it becomes easier to identify and classify various features such as
06338|Identifying the abiotic and biotic drivers behind the elevational distribution shift of a parasitic plant.
   > [no term] Climate change will alter the biotic and abiotic environment and dissipate ecological barriers, reorganising maps of current distribution of parasites and their hosts. In this study, we analyse the population
06339|Data-Driven Modelling of PV Production to Increase Forecast Accuracy of Multi-Inverter Plants
   > a complete 3-year real dataset of 6 different PV plants, located in different regions of Italy. Results show that the data-driven approach always outperforms the … multiple inverters. The modeling approach for individual inverters has proven to be generalizable to multiple plants and robust enough to model accurately, overcoming plant-specific issues
06340|Out-of-distribution algorithms for robust insect classification
   > [no abstract]
06341|Classification of Cannabis sativa L. in Relation to Agricultural, Biotechnological, Medical and Recreational Utilization
   > [no abstract]
06342|Unsupervised Domain Adaptation for Transferring Plant Classification Systems to New Field Environments, Crops, and Robots
   > semantic segmentation systems, however, often show a performance decay when applied under new field conditions. In this paper, we therefore propose an effective approach to unsupervised domain adaptation for plant segmentation systems in agriculture and thus to adapt existing systems to new environments, different value crops, and other farm robots. Our system yields a high segmentation performanc
06343|TORA: Parameter-Efficient Token-Driven Residual Adaptation of Remote Sensing Foundation Models for Multiscale Agricultural Vision
   > fine-grained multiscale structures. Although remote sensing foundation models (RSFMs) have demonstrated strong generalization in generic Earth observation tasks, adapting them effectively to domain-specific agricultural applications … strategies often struggle to balance semantic adaptability across diverse crop phenotypes and domain shifts with spatial fidelity in preserving fine-grained structur
06344|Identification of Multi-landscape and Cell Interactions in the Tumor Microenvironment through High-Coverage Single-Cell Sequencing
   > [no term] Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) is a widely used method for classifying cell types and states and revealing disease mechanisms. However, most contemporary scRNA-seq platforms fail to explore the multilandscape of
06345|Plant Classification in the Wild: A Transfer Learning Approach
   > [no term] Datasets specialized in wildlife usually contain imbalanced classes of natural wild images such as, for instance, plant images, which are acquired from the surrounding environment with natural scene background. Deep
06346|The past, present, and future distribution of Calanthe graciliflora: implications for conservation and phylogeography
   > historical refugia of C. graciliflora while simultaneously integrating analyses of its future distribution shifts. This work fills the gap in long-term climate response research for
06347|Characterization of the phenotypic variability in Colombian weedy rice (Oryza spp.)
   > characterized the range of morphological and genetic diversity in weedy rice from different locations and have revealed that there is often great morphological diversity within
06348|Optimized Ensemble Deep Learning for Automated Crop Area Mapping Using Satellite Imagery
   > scalable solution for real-time crop monitoring and resource allocation in Kasaragod and other regions with similar agricultural challenges.
06349|Ethnobotanical Survey and Habitat Mapping of Medicinal Plants and Its Implication on Conservation Management in Rural Kwara Communities
   > study area revealed six classes: swamp /water bodies, river valley, savanna woodland, degraded woodland, grassland and settlements cluster. Most threatened species such as Aristolochia ringes, … Picralima nitida are those found in Malete KWASU campus axis in the degraded woodland and settlement cluster classes. This is due to the high level
06350|More Clear, More Flexible, More Precise: A Comprehensive Oriented Object Detection benchmark for UAV
   > resources, they are often designed for specific downstream tasks.Consequently, they exhibit limited generalization performance in real flight scenarios and fail to thoroughly demonstrate algorithm effectiveness … CODrone, a comprehensive oriented object detection dataset for UAVs that accurately reflects real-world conditions. It also serves as a new benchmark designed to align with
06351|Gini Coefficient-Based Feature Learning for Unsupervised Cross-Domain Classification with Compact Polarimetric SAR Data
   > be suitable to represent the same target in other images. The domain distribution shift of different images reduces the reusability of the labeled samples. Thus, exploring cross-domain interpretation methods is of great potential for SAR images to improve the … rate of existing labels from historical images. In this study, an unsupervised cross-domain classification method is proposed that utilize
06352|Abstract 1040: Development of a novel RNA-based microsatellite stable predictive response signature (MSS-PRS) to identify MSS colorectal cancer (CRC) 
   > [no term]  Introduction: MSI-H and mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) tumors are associated with favorable immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) responses (PMID: 3326454). However, up to 95% of CRC tumors are MSS/proficient MMR
06353|Donna J. Drucker, The Classification of Sex: Alfred Kinsey and the Organization of Knowledge (Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 2014), pp. x
   > [no abstract]
06354|The geomorphologic forcing of wild boars
   > species, the wild boar (Sus scrofa) is the most responsible for soil degradation in Europe and many Italian regions. At the same time, the stable … agricultural areas has induced a conflict with humans, causing economic losses, environmental degradation and also social issues. A clear quantification of the potential damages (in
06355|A Stable Diffusion Based Image Generation Method for Few-Shot Emerging Pest Detection in the Wild
   > Detecting few-shot emerging pests in the wild presents a significant challenge in the field of agricultural computer
06356|Toward Reliable Diabetic Retinopathy Screening
   > (DR) grading requires reliable five-grade severity assessment under substantial acquisition variability and cross-dataset distribution shift. We propose PRISM-DR, a multi-objective five-grade DR grading framework trained under … DR datasets. Evaluated across six datasets under Fixed-Source, Multi-Target (FSMT) protocols, PRISM-DR trained on EyePACS + DDR achieves QWK of 0.835 on IDRiD, 0.865 on
06357|Intelligent Prediction Method for Phenological Period of Cold-Region Rice Based on Meteorological Data and Deep Learning
   > accuracy and computational efficiency, making it adaptable to precision agricultural management across different years and regions. This work provides technical support for the advancement of
06358|MaskAdapt: Unsupervised Geometry-Aware Domain Adaptation Using Multimodal Contextual Learning and RGB-Depth Masking
   > depend on labor intensive pixel-level annotations. A further challenge arises when models trained on one field (source domain) fail to generalize to new fields (target domain) due to domain shifts, such as variations in lighting, camera setups, soil composition, and crop growth stages. Unsupervised Domain Adaptation (UDA) addresses this by enabling adaptation without target-domain labels, but curr
06359|Aggregated occurrence records of the invasive alien striped field mouse (Apodemusagrarius Pall.) in the former USSR
   > range of this species have been observed or inferred. By intrusion into new regions, the striped field mouse has become an alien species there. Apodemusagrarius
06360|Crop Recommendation Application using Ensemble Classifiers
   > agriculture. The agricultural methods used and the commodities produced can vary between different locations. The challenge for farmers is make to right choice of the
06361|Hydrodynamic-Knowledge Fusion Paradigms for Soft Sensing of Spatial Sediment Distribution in Horizontal-Flow Sedimentation Tanks
   > the lowest MCE (1.052) among the eighteen paradigm–predictor combinations evaluated. Under the out-of-distribution setting with extended sedimentation duration, knowledge distillation attained the lowest values on
06362|Characterization of Hyetograms and Rainfall Patterns in Southern Amazonia
   > Amazon). Generally, most research in Brazil on this topic has focused on other regions of the country or used simulations or data disaggregation processes, limiting
06363|Automated phenotype pattern recognition of zebrafish for high-throughput screening
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Over the last years, the zebrafish (Danio rerio) has become a key model organism in genetic and chemical screenings. A growing number of experiments and an expanding interest in
06364|The role of wild plants and herbs in restoring holistic health and fighting the infections borne by the epidemic COVID-19
   > [no term] COVID-19 also named as extreme coronavirus acute respiratory syndrome 2 (SARS-CoV-2), is a new strain of coronavirus that affects humans and was formally identified in 2019, after its recent discovery
06365|A VAC4EU Systematic Review to Summarize and Critically Appraise Existing Phenotype Libraries Using Electronic Health Records
   > [no abstract]
06366|Google Earth Engine (GEE) cloud computing based crop classification using radar, optical images and Support Vector Machine Algorithm (SVM)
   > series of Sentinel 1 (S1), Sentinel-2 A, and B (S2) images for different years. SVM algorithm is first used with Sentinel 2 data after tuning
06367|Plant nutritional potency of recent volcanic materials from the southern flank of mt. Merapi, Indonesia
   > [no abstract]
06368|Assessment of the bacterial load of the fish ponds and identification of A. Hydrophilla; haemolytic and proteolytic activity
   > [no abstract]
06369|Animal Intrusion Detection Using various Deep Learning Models
   > [no term] Agriculture is the most important sector of Indian economy, but the issue of damage to crops by wild creatures has turned into a noteworthy social issue in current occasions. So
06370|An investigation of factual and counterfactual feedback information in early visual cortex
   > [no abstract]
06371|Diagnostic Benchmark and Iterative Inpainting for Layout-Guided Image Generation
   > spatial configurations. However, it is unclear how these models perform when facing out-of-distribution (OOD) samples with arbitrary, unseen layouts. In this paper, we propose LayoutBench, a diagnostic benchmark for layout-guided … generation methods and observe that the good ID layout control may not generalize well to arbitrary layouts in the wild (e.g., objects at the boundary). Next, we propos
06372|CSTN: A cross-region crop mapping method integrating self-training and contrastive domain adaptation
   > [no abstract]
06373|Weighted Pseudo Labeling Refinement for Plant Identification
   > [no abstract]
06374|Environment-Guided Multimodal Pest Detection and Risk Assessment in Fruit and Vegetable Production Systems
   > approximately 4.5 percentage points compared with the simple multimodal feature concatenation method. Cross-crop, cross-site, and cross-year generalization experiments further show that risk accuracy remains above 0.84 with stable recognition performance under significant distribution shifts. Ablation studies verify the synergistic contributions of the proposed core modules
06375|ASDFace: Face-based Autism Diagnosis via Heterogeneous Domain Adaptation
   > deep learning-based diagnostic tools. To address this problem, we present a heterogeneous domain adaptation model that adopts sufficient individuals’ labeled characteristic and behavioural data as source domain to execute the facial classification task in the target domain. We also deploy this model to a web-based platform named ASDFace.
06376|Removing Biases from Molecular Representations via Information Maximization
   > show results for how InfoCORE offers a versatile framework and resolves general distribution shifts and issues of data fairness by minimizing correlation with spurious features
06377|PlantExpertVQA: A Visual Question Answering Dataset for Benchmarking Vision-Language Models in Plant Science
   > dataset yields substantial improvements across all question categories, demonstrating its effectiveness for domain adaptation.
06378|Development and field evaluation of a machine vision based in-season weed detection system for wild blueberry
   > classification accuracies of 94.98% and 93.80% for training and testing datasets, respectively. Another quadratic classifier (with DM-HSI model) containing all 39 textural features was found
06379|Mangroves in India: A Geographical Perspective
   > [no abstract]
06380|Fodder crop estimation using Sentinel-2A/B satellite data for West Bengal, India
   > study area and a total of 610 GT points were collected from different locations of fodder crops using handheld GPS and smartphone-based applications to validate
06381|Hallucination Detection in Foundation Models for Decision-Making: A Flexible Definition and Review of the State of the Art
   > situations they were specifically designed for, they can perform especially poorly in out-of-distribution scenarios that will undoubtedly arise at test-time. The rise of foundation models trained on multiple tasks with impressively large datasets has led researchers to believe
06382|A New Approach of Machine Learning And Deep Learning Algorithms Based Crop Yield Prediction
   > [no term] The science and art of raising plants and wild animals is called agriculture. India’s agriculture ranks second in the world and its agricultural areas make up 60.45% of the country’s
06383|Assessing land use/cover dynamics and exploring drivers in the Amazon's arc of deforestation through a hierarchical, multi-scale and multi-temporal cl
   > expansion in agricultural area. The method presented here can be adapted to other regions, improving efficiency and accuracy of classifying land cover in heterogeneous landscapes.
06384|Physics-Informed Reduced-Order Digital Twin for Edge Deployment: Online Tracking of Heat Transfer Dynamics Under Variable Loads and Strong Noise
   > severe systematic bias; and purely data-driven models risk yielding non-physical predictions under out-of-distribution scenarios such as variable-load operations. To address these challenges, this study proposes … baseline provides a proxy indicator for distinguishing load-induced reversible variations from potential degradation-related residual trends.
06385|Mapping the brain in the twenty‐first century: Extrahypothalamic projections of TRH neurones
   > [no term] Commentary on Zupancic M, Tretiakov E, Mate Z, et al. “Brainwide mapping of efferent projections of glutamatergic (Onecut3+) neurons in the lateral mouse hypothalamus.” Acta Physiol (Oxf). 2023:e13973.1 Morphological and
06386|CroplandSAMCD: Siamese Mobile SAM with Domain Adaptation Fusion for Cropland Change Detection of Remote Sensing Images
   > the visual foundation model MobileSAM with a fine-tuned TinyViT encoder and a domain adaptation fusion module (DAFM). MobileSAM extracts high-level semantic features, while TinyViT refines … effectiveness and competitiveness in the task of cropland change detection. In the generalization experiments, CroplandSAMCD demonstrated excellent performance on the WHU-CD and LEVIR-CD building change
06387|Artificial intelligence-empowered multi-scale data integration for precision exercise biomedicine
   > We also delineate persistent barriers to translation, including data heterogeneity, reliability under distribution shift, interpretability and uncertainty communication, and regulatory and ethical constraints. We argue
06388|Revealing hierarchical structure of leaf venations via diffusion-refined label-efficient segmentation: Dataset and method
   > and connectivity of tertiary veins at low annotation costs. We also pioneer cross-species learning, training models on easily-annotated species and applying them to difficult ones.
06389|Coiled-Coil Antagonism Regulates Activity of Venus Flytrap-Domain-Containing Sensor Kinases of the BvgS Family
   > the X linker play roles similar to those played by the two independent linkers in sensor kinases with a PAS domain, providing a unified mechanism
06390|Animal Repellent System for Smart Farming using AI and Edge Computing
   > tracking applications at a fine-grained level. Management of the ecosystem's relationships with external elements such as wildlife plays an increasingly important role in this rapidly
06391|Pests & weed control autonomous robot using machine vision
   > [no term] To create a future in which both people and nature can survive? This is the biggest question of our time! In the next few decades, we need to do something
06392|Fine classification of crops based on an inductive transfer learning method with compact polarimetric SAR images
   > variations over time, training samples from one dataset usually perform poorly for another. Therefore, in this study, transfer learning is introduced to crop classification to … of representative samples from unlabeled datasets to characterize each class in the target domain based on limited labeled samples and construct a classifier set to classify the target domain. This study investigates CP SA
06393|A Hybrid Cnn-Transformer Approach for Multiscale Frequency Domain Adversarial Example Generation
   > transformer encoding. However, this approach faces limitations such as gradient stability, suboptimal transferability across diverse architectures, and a lack of multiscale semantic understanding. Therefore, to
06394|Plant communities in tropical ancient mountains: how are they spatially and evolutionary structured?
   > [no term]  The integration of phylogenetic methods and species distribution can really help in the investigation of biogeographic patterns and to fill gaps in evolutionary ecology. Here we investigated how the
06395|Spatiotemporal variability of streamflow in the Pearl River Basin: Controls of land surface processes and atmospheric impacts
   > characteristics. We observe distinct patterns in the different water fluxes across the different regions. Specifically, surface flow exhibits the highest activity within the precipitation zone.
06396|A Scalable AI-Driven Chatbot for Real-Time Diagnostics in Manufacturing Plants: Merging Google Dialogflow, BERT, and a Self-Learning Module
   > enables seamless interaction with users while requiring minimal reconfiguration when adapting to new environments. The integration of BERT in the back-end empowers the chatbot to
06397|Woodland Segmentation: A Comprehensive Analysis on China Region
   > [no abstract]
06398|Animal Repellent System for Smart Farming Using Artificial Intelligence and Deep Learning
   > [no abstract]
06399|Land, Income and Land-Use Diversification in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province of Northern Pakistan
   > images are used to classify land-use classes (e.g. vegetation, built-up) for two different years (e.g. 2005 and 2017) for cross-verification and comparison. The highest 45% … the policy makers, agricultural experts and society is required to minimize land degradation and to thwart further agricultural-land loss.
06400|Interpretable Plant Leaf Recognition: Calibration and Domain Shift Analysis With Occlusion Sensitivity and Grad-Cam
   > (97.0 %). Besides accuracy, we evaluated robustness, calibration, interpretability, and sensitivity to domain shift. Results showed resistance to blur but vulnerability to noise and lighting
06401|ISOLATION AND STUDY ON PURE CULTURE OF WILD EDIBLE MUSHROOMS COLLECTED FROM PROVINCES IN THE SOUTHEAST REGION OF VIET NAM
   > [no term] The present study aimed to characterize, classify and attempt to purely culture wild edible mushrooms collected from several provinces in the Southeast region of Viet Nam. We isolated seven mushroom
06402|Potential of the Synthetic Fuel Oxymethylene Ether (OME) for the Usage in a Single-Cylinder Non-Road Diesel Engine: Thermodynamics and Emissions
   > reduced by multiple orders of magnitude. The median of the particle size distribution shifts from 60 to 85 nm (diesel) into a diameter range of
06403|The ImmGen consortium OpenSource T cell project
   > [no abstract]
06404|An Optimal Hyper Parameter Selection of Deep Learning Models for Automatic Citrus Fruit and Leaves Diseases Detection
   > [no term] This study focuses on enhancing the detection of citrus fruit and leaf diseases to reduce financial losses and improve product quality in the agricultural sector. Citrus diseases, including black spot,
06405|Fishing Villages under
   > [no abstract]
06406|“Snap-n-Eat”
   > [no abstract]
06407|A Multiclass Deep Learning Approach for LULC Classification of Multispectral Satellite Images
   > with an average F1 score of 0.84. The trained model applied to other regions has shown encouraging results which makes this an effective method to
06408|A Review on Optimization of Dynamic Electricity Price-Responsive Charging Load Driven by Deep Reinforcement Learning
   > However, issues such as strategy coordination dilemmas, V2G technical bottlenecks [30][33], insufficient cross-domain adaptability of models, and a single incentive mechanism still restrict large-scale implementation. Future research should focus on multi-agent federated reinforcement learning [21], transportation-energy cross-domain coordination, trusted privacy protection, and policy-technology-
06409|Agricultural Field Analysis Using Satellite Surface Reflectance Data and Machine Learning Technique
   > [no abstract]
06410|Abstract 5286: A pipeline for developing a novel, predictive tool to classify variants of uncertain significance (VUS) in Lynch Syndrome
   > of promise for gene-specific predictors, such as PON-MMR and CoDP, that are trained on the physical and evolutionary features of known deleterious and benign mutations
06411|Bird Damage Prevention System Utilizing Deep Learning based on Birds' Behavior
   > [no abstract]
06412|Bridging Communication Gaps: A Deep Learning Approach for Peruvian Sign Language Recognition
   > [no term] This study presents a deep learning approach for recognizing the Peruvian Sign Language (PSL) alphabet from video sequences, aiming to promote inclusive and accessible sign language learning. The proposed methodology
06413|Yeast biodiversity from Vitis vinifera L., subsp. sylvestris (Gmelin) Hegi to face up the oenological consequences of climate change
   > groups, 6 of which as the majority from 2 up to 4 different locations. These findings demonstrate a wide diversity of yeast microbiota in wild
06414|Disease Recognition in Sugarcane Crop Using Deep Learning
   > [no abstract]
06415|Multidimensional scaling analysis of sensory characteristics and quantitative traits inwild apricots
   > [no term] al., 2007; Bakır et al., 2019). Abstract: The Cappadocia Region in Central Anatolia, Turkey is rich in wild apricot genetic resources. In this study, a multivariate analysis method of metric
06416|Improving Hindi POS Tagger Accuracy Through Domain Adaptation
   > [no term] The paper presents a comparative evaluation report on multi-domain Hindi taggers. Two taggers are trained in this experiment with the objective of detecting the accuracy rate of the tagger after
06417|Abstract 7858: Machine learning predicts retinoblastoma (Rb) function in real-world small cell lung cancer patients.
   > [no term]  Inactivation of the retinoblastoma (Rb) tumor suppressor has long been considered a molecular hallmark of small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC), an aggressive form of bronchogenic, smoking-induced lung cancer with
06418|Abstract 4169: A deep learning approach to guide acquisition region selection for imaging mass cytometry
   > [no term]  The growth in cancer immunotherapy agents requires an understanding of the immune contexture of the tumor microenvironment. This can be aided by high-plex imaging and analysis to obtain phenotypes
06419|Abstract 229: Methylation as a surrogate for mutations to identify therapeutic targets
   > [no term]  Background: Patients whose tumors exhibit an inflammatory "hot” phenotype tend to show initial efficacy toward immune checkpoint inhibitors but develop resistance over time, becoming “cold” tumors. Understanding the biology
06420|Partial fingerprint recognition through region-based approach
   > [no abstract]
06421|Identification and genetic characterization of Pseudomonas syringae pv. syringae from sweet cherry in Turkey.
   > this study, several samples were collected from infected sweet cherry trees in different locations of the Marmara region in Turkey between 2016-2018. Sixty-three isolates were
06422|Weakly-Supervised Pavement Surface Crack Segmentation Based on Dual Separation and Domain Generalization
   > a weakly-supervised pavement surface crack segmentation method based on Dual Separation and Domain Generalization (DSDGNet). Firstly, a crack image formulation model (CIFM) is developed by … masks, are generated to facilitate the training of fully-supervised segmentation models. A generalizable loss is proposed to enhance the model generalization ability by combining reconstruction, segmentation, 
06423|POLINIZAÇÃO DA PEREIRA-PORTUGUESA EM BOM RETIRO-SC, BRASIL 1
   > [no abstract]
06424|Channel Split Convolutional Neural Network (ChaSNet) for Thermal Image Super-Resolution
   > in the PBVS-2021 Thermal SR Challenge, consisting of noise elimination (Track-1) and domain shifting (Track-2). The efficacy is justified by comparing the SR results with
06425|An investigation into the causes of race bias in AI-based cine CMR segmentation
   > [no term] Artificial intelligence (AI) methods are being used increasingly for the automated segmentation of cine cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging. However, these methods have been shown to be subject to race
06426|Conditional Neural Optimal Transport for Predicting Cellular Phenotypes from Molecular Structure
   > while reducing microscopy-associated technical variation, thereby facilitating comparisons across experimental batches. On unseen active molecules, the model outperforms baseline approaches, demonstrating that chemically conditioned transport can generalize beyond the molecules observed during training. We identified the molecular encoder as the main limitation to this generalization, while transp
06427|Using Fully Convolutional Networks for Rumex Obtusifolius Segmentation, a Preliminary Report
   > solution is therefore a robust method to segment Rumex obtusifolius plants under real-world conditions in short time.
06428|Quantifying bristle cell organization in Drosophila melanogaster using spatial clustering features
   > [no term] Developing tissues reproduce nearly identical patterns from animal to animal, despite the process being stochastic at the cell level. A major challenge for researchers is the ability to quantify and
06429|Functional variation of potassium, sodium and chloride ions in selected salt- tolerant-calli from durum wheat ( Triticum durum Desf.) mature embryo
   > [no abstract]
06430|Topic-based classification and identification of global trends for startup companies
   > of the startups into account, we measure which topics were increasing or decreasing their share over time, and which of them were predominantly present in Europe, North America, or other regions. We find that the share of startups focused on data analytics,
06431|Estimation of crop yield using deep learning for precision agriculture
   > the second dataset consists of 6512 images of wheat heads collected from different regions around the world. The main objective of this work is to
06432|MT4AFE: A Deep Learning Benchmark Dataset for Agricultural Field Extraction
   > publicly available resource for reproducible research. The dataset’s diverse coverage, with three different years of Sentinel-2 Level-3A data, will help further machine learning research in
06433|POLINIZAÇÃO DA PEREIRA-PORTUGUESA EM BOM RETIRO-SC, BRASIL
   > fruit set in open pollinated flowers, but its effect was variable in different years. The formation of stenospermocarpic fruits probably is stimulated with pollination and
06434|Impact of Temperature Inversion on the Distribution Shifts of Turkish Red Pine (Pinus brutia Ten.) and Black Pine ( Pinus nigra Arnold.) in the Karınc
   > [no term] Topographic diversity leads to climate and vegetation differences over short distances. A significant example of these differences is temperature inversion, where cold air accumulates in hollows and concave areas, resulting
06435|Spatial Predictive Modeling of the Burning of Sugarcane Plots in Northeast Thailand with Selection of Factor Sets Using a GWR Model and Machine Learni
   > system (GIS) approach, and the final stage is the use of screened independent variable factors to predict the plots of burned sugarcane in 2031. The … in the service zones of Khonburi and Saikaw. An influential set of independent variables can increase the accuracy of the ANN-CA model in forecasting with
06436|Autocrine WNT2 signaling in fibroblasts promotes colorectal cancer progression
   > [no abstract]
06437|Journey's End: the quest for BRCA-like hereditary breast cancer genes is nearly over.
   > have different proportions of these events which reflect mutagenic contributions from distinct external exposures (like UV and smoking) as well as underlying DNA repair defects. … cases (n1⁄4 30). As reported by others [14–16], but in contrast to another study [19], all the tumors arising in heterozygotes for PVs in BRCA1,
06438|Non-destructive analysis of Japanese table grape qualities using near-infrared spectroscopy
   > [no abstract]
06439|Assessing the Capability of Random Forest to Estimate Received Power in LoRaWAN for Agricultural Settings Using Climate Data
   > model uses eleven days of available data from twenty-nine nodes placed at different locations and heights in a maize crop field. In addition, the weather
06440|Analysis of Object Detection Techniques using Satellite Images
   > indicate the need for future work focusing on improving efficiency, robustness, and generalization, particularly through multi-scale feature extraction and domain adaptation strategies for practical deployment in remote sensing applications.
06441|BananaGPT: A Zero-Shot LLM Framework for Predicting Banana Time-to-Spoilage to Reduce Food Waste
   > to those baselines and significantly outperforms a generic LLM baseline. In data distribution shift scenarios, it remains robust, whereas the baselines degrade noticeably. These results suggest that BananaGPT can generalize without task-specific training to account for uncontrolled ripening factors (e.g., temperature and
06442|Population structure, inbreeding and stripe pattern abnormalities in plains zebras
   > [no term] One of the most iconic wild equids, the plains zebra occupies a broad region of sub‐Saharan Africa and exhibits a wide range of phenotypic diversity in stripe patterns that have
06443|Multi-source Unsupervised Domain Adaptation on Corn Yield Prediction
   > [no abstract]
06444|The antagonistic duality of NPM1 mutations in AML
   > [no term] Nucleophosmin (NPM) is a ubiquitous nucleocytoplasmic shuttle phosphoprotein with critical physiologic roles in the maintenance of genomic stability, ribosome synthesis, and response to stress stimuli and DNA repair. 1 Although
06445|Recognition and Characterization of Forest Plant Communities through Remote-Sensing NDVI Time Series
   > from plant associations to class level, hierarchically reflects the floristic similarity between different sites on different spatial scales. The development of remotely sensed multispectral platforms
06446|Unconditional Flow Matching With Classifier-Based Pruning for Distribution-Aligned Soil Spectral Synthesis
   > classifier-based pruning strategy that uses an adversarially trained decision tree to discard out-of-distribution synthetic samples. We evaluated our approach across four subsets. It successfully bounds
06447|Background Matters: Enhancing Out-of-distribution Detection with Domain Features
   > [no abstract]
06448|Domain-Invariant Crop Type Mapping Using Transformer-Based Time-Frequency Feature Extraction and Adaptation for Unlabeled Target Regions
   > the lack of labeled data in many regions and the issue of domain shift. To address these challenges, we propose a domain adaptation framework that leverages transformer-based time-frequency feature extraction to create domain-invariant representations, … This comprehensive optimization ensures that the model learns robust, domain-invariant features that generalize well across different regions. Th
06449|Riding an escalator: upward range shift and patterns of genetic response to climate change in Acer caudatifolium
   > adaptation, particularly amongst plant species. Besides, rising temperatures frequently result in upslope distribution shifts towards climatic optima (i.e. the escalator effect) within a limited dispersal
06450|A Comprehensive Assessment of Land use Land Cover of Thiruvananthapuram Urban Agglomeration using Gis and Remote Sensing
   > last decades. To evaluate this, we use satellite images of Landsat from different years since 1988. The method of Maximum Likelihood Supervised Classification is employed … area (48.98%), water body (39.33%) and settlements with mixed trees (14.69%). The decreasing trend in agricultural area is directly linked to population growth, and related
06451|A source-free unsupervised domain adaptation framework for large-scale, in-season soybean mapping
   > [no abstract]
06452|Survey of Multimodal Geospatial Foundation Models: Techniques, Applications, and Challenges
   > and their impact is now reshaping remote sensing image analysis. With powerful generalization and transfer learning capabilities, they align naturally with the multimodal, multi-resolution, and … key techniques for alignment, integration, and knowledge transfer to tackle modality heterogeneity, distribution shifts, and semantic gaps. Advances in training paradigms, architectures, and task-specific
06453|Climate change increases ecogeographical isolation between closely related plants
   > [no term] Ecogeographical isolation is a fundamental prezygotic barrier to reproduction and a step towards diversification in flowering plants. However, whether ecogeographical isolation acts as a reproductive barrier between species and thus
06454|Diagnosing and Fixing Confidence-Deficit Bias in Energy-Based Out-of-Distribution Segmentation
   > machines operating offroad require both real-time semantic segmentation and reliable detection of out-of-distribution (OoD) obstacles. This paper transfers Residual Pattern Learning (RPL) to the real-time … Their energy thus falls in the range of true anomalies. In the target domain, every person region turns into a false positive (mean energy +3.5
06455|Nonlinear Pixel Value Transformation from Visible to Thermal Infrared Images Using Deep Learning
   > Furthermore, we propose a region-specific modeling approach based on K-means clustering, where independent neural networks are trained for each segmented region, achieving $R^{2}=0.7874$ for the bestperforming region. The correlation analysis reveals that different regions learn distinct nonlinear mappings while maintaining prediction consistency across regions.
06456|Pfam domain adaptation profiles reflect plant species’ evolutionary history
   > three species: maize, Arabidopsis, and poplar. We find that patterns of Pfam domain adaptation across organelles are consistent and highly significant between species, with cytosolic … accessions have a negative effect on Pfam temperature adaptation overall. These Pfam domain adaptation profiles provide insight into how different plant structures adapt to their
06457|The Promise of Semantic Segmentation in Detecting Actinic Keratosis Using Clinical Photography in the Wild
   > [no term] Simple Summary Understanding the relationship between the skin cancerization field and actinic keratosis (AK) is crucial for identifying high-risk individuals, implementing early interventions, and preventing the progression to more aggressive
06458|Cross-Domain Application of Deep Learning Techniques for Improved Diagnostic and Phenotyping Accuracy in Medical and Agricultural Imaging
   > methodologies from both fields to improve diagnostic and phenotyping accuracy. The model, pre-trained on a general dataset and finetuned with ultrasound images for pancreatic steatosis diagnosis and field images for pepper phenotyping, used transfer learning and domain adaptation to address domain shifts. It achieved 87.5% accuracy, 90.2% sensitivity, and 84.3% specificity for pancreatic
06459|Desarrollo de un sistema de fenotipado basado en visión artificial para el estudio de la cinética de crecimiento de plantas
   > and Petunia x hybrida, has allowed the implementation of a modelling methodology –Generalized Additive Models–, which facilitates the study of the growth curves and allows … y de Petunia x hybrida, ha permitido implementar una metodologia de modelizacion –Generalized Additive Models–, que facilita el estudio de las curvas de este crecimiento
06460|Morphological and Physicochemical Characteristics of the Fruits of <i>Anisophyllea Quangensis</i> Engl. Ex Henriq from the Savannah Surrounding the Ci
   > of the fruits of <i>Anisophyllea quangensis</i>. Ten fruit samples were collected from different locations in the savannah surrounding Brazzaville. Morphological characterization on 20 fruits from
06461|Securing origin integrity through Machine Learning analysis of Mozzarella di Bufala PDO Microbiome
   > that correlate with specific geographic regions. For instance, ML models can be trained on datasets containing information about the microbiota composition of Mozzarella di Bufala Campana PDO samples collected from different regions. By leveraging advanced classification or clustering algorithms, these models can learn
06462|Ophiocordyceps zhenxingensis sp. nov. and its microbiota during sexual and asexual stages in nature
   > [no term] ABSTRACT Ophiocordyceps holds significant importance in forest arthropod population regulation, biological control of agricultural pests, and the development of bioactive substances. Investigating the microbial community composition of wild Ophiocordyceps is
06463|Irregular Facades: A Dataset for Semantic Segmentation of the Free Facade of Modern Buildings
   > with the free facade of modern buildings, however, the accuracy of segmentation decreased significantly, partly due to its low regularity of composition. The freely organized … six classes, i.e., Background, Plant, Wall, Window, Door, and Fence. The multi-network cross-dataset control experiment demonstrated that the IRFs-trained classifiers segment the free facade of
06464|Crowd Counting via Single-Domain Generalization
   > To address the issue of “domain shift”, researchers have proposed numerous single-domain generalization methods for crowd counting. These methods primarily focus on feature alignment to directly extract domain-invariant features, thereby enhancing the model’s generalization ability. However, we argue that in single-source domain scenarios, where the style differences in video images are minimal, t
06465|Effects of water stress on phenolic content and antioxidant activity of African nightshades
   > [no abstract]
06466|DINOv3-Based Cross-Domain Transfer for UAV Thermal Photovoltaic Fault Recognition
   > that the proposed method achieves 94.67% accuracy on PVF-10 and shows strong generalization ability across different inspection scenarios. The proposed framework provides an efficient solution
06467|Sample Generation with Self-Attention Generative Adversarial Adaptation Network (SaGAAN) for Hyperspectral Image Classification
   > traditional GANs, the proposed method has two contributions: (1) it includes a domain adaptation term to constrain generated samples to be more realistic to the
06468|Zero-Shot Super-Resolution as a Test-Time Enhancer for Cross-Crop Plant Disease Recognition
   > Accurate plant disease diagnosis is central to precision agriculture, yet real-world performance degrades under blur, low resolution, and domain shift, weakening zero-shot recognition of unseen diseases. This paper investigates the integration of Coordinate Attention (CA) and Zero-Shot Super-Resolution (ZSSR) as test-time plug-ins to a standard Zero-Shot Learning (ZSL) pipeline without using any t
06469|Pathophysiology of Niemann-Pick Type C and Fabry diseases with Emphasis on Membrane Composition and Protein Trafficking
   > [no abstract]
06470|Standardni i savremeni pristupi u određivanju energetskih karakteristika velikih i malih hidroelektrana
   > [no term] In the field of renewable energy sources, hydropower is classified as economically and environmentally acceptable source where highly efficient and reliable systems are applied in energy transformation. Designing and exploiting
06471|Transfer Learning-Enhanced Leaf Area Index Retrieval From Landsat Surface Reflectance Data
   > In recent years, artificial neural networks (ANNs) trained on data simulated by radiative transfer models (RTMs) have demonstrated substantial potential … and LAI ground measurements, offering a viable physical-model-based solution to mitigate the domain shift that occurs between simulated data and satellite observations.
06472|Novel Mutations A 53 D , A 53 G , A 53 R , and H 50 D of α-Synuclein in Parkinson ’ s Disease observed in budding yeast to determine effects in aggreg
   > [no abstract]
06473|Security and Forensic Issues in Internet of Everything Networks: A Review
   > and AI-driven detection models achieved accuracies above 90%. Nonetheless, challenges remain in cross-domain interoperability, legal admissibility of evidence, and resource-efficient deployment of AI models. In
06474|Wildlife habitat mapping using Sentinel-2 imagery of Mehao Wildlife Sanctuary, Arunachal Pradesh, India
   > [no term] Mehao Wildlife Sanctuary, situated in the state of Arunachal Pradesh, is part of an important biodiversity hotspot in the north-eastern part of India in the Himalayas. The current study deals
06475|Short-term solar irradiance forecasting using convolutional neural networks and cloud imagery
   > Access to accurate, generalizable and scalable solar irradiance prediction is critical for smooth solar-grid integration, especially … accessible satellite cloud images. Our proposed model predicts solar irradiance in 12 different locations in the US for various prediction time horizons. Our model yields
06476|Cross-Domain Few-Shot Agricultural Pest and Disease Named Entity Recognition Based on a Pseudo-Label Filtering Self-Training Decomposition Framework
   > In cross-domain few-shot named entity recognition tasks, although decomposition framework-based methods have achieved certain successes, they still face challenges related to domain adaptation bias. Fine-tuning with limited labeled samples has inherent limitations in adapting to target domain feature distributions, and traditional pseudo-labeling methods, which mainly rely on model … using a confi
06477|Domain Generalization for Crop Segmentation with Knowledge Distillation
   > [no abstract]
06478|Satellite Image Manipulation Detection via Spherical Space Domain Adaptation
   > [no term] Satellite images are widely used in meteorological observation, disaster prevention and agricultural management. Meanwhile, satellite images can be tampered by image editing tools like other images. As an emerging research
06479|Semi-Supervised Weed Detection in Vegetable Fields: In-domain and Cross-domain Experiments
   > fully supervised baselines, was conducted for weed detection in both in-domain and cross-domain contexts. A new, diverse weed dataset was created as the testbed, comprising … experiment with models trained using 10% of the labeled, basic-domain images and tested on the remaining 90% of the data, showed that the YOLOv8-basedWeedTeacher achieved
06480|Inheritance of gene expression throughout fruit development in chili pepper
   > [no term] Gene expression is the primary molecular phenotype and can be estimated in specific organs or tissues at particular times. Here we analyzed genome-wide inheritance of gene expression in fruits of
06481|Automated Recognition of Cereal Crop Wild Relatives Using Deep Convolutional Models
   > [no term] Crop Wild Relatives (CWRs) are wild species of cultivated crops that contain useful genes for improving disease resistance, drought tolerance, and yield. However, It is difficult for ordinary users to
06482|Assessing Sensitivity of Paddy Rice to Climate Change in South Korea
   > Gyeongnam-do. However, regions Gyeonggi-do, Gangwon-do, and Chungcheongbuk-do had low sensitivity compared to other regions. The REIPs were used to categorize sensitivity into four types: low
06483|The emerging market for mercury control
   > [no abstract]
06484|WECNN-PDP: Weighted Ensemble Convolutional Neural Networks Models to Improve the Plant Disease Prediction
   > improved the detection performance, and it is expected to be applied to real-world conditions and can be a reference to be developed further in future
06485|You only need 4 extra tokens: Synergistic Test-time Adaptation for LLMs
   > specialized domains such as finance, medicine, and agriculture, where they face significant distribution shifts from their training data. Domain-specific fine-tuning can mitigate this challenge but … is expensive and slow to collect in expertise-limited settings. We study label-free test-time adaptation for language models and present SyTTA, an inference-time framework that adapts
06486|Performance Analysis of YOLOv8–YOLOv12 for Edge-Based Strawberry Ripeness Detection
   > 0.95(0.9613)$, outperforming both earlier and more recent architectures. YOLOv12 variants demonstrate strong generalization and high sensitivity, but with slightly lower precision, indicating a higher tendency … edge-based fruit quality assessment and highlight research opportunities to integrate multispectral sensors, domain adaptation techniques, and real-world evaluations into future studies.
06487|Multi-shift spatio-temporal features assisted deep neural network for detecting the intrusion of wild animals using surveillance cameras
   > [no term] The coexistence of human populations and wildlife in shared habitats necessitates the development of effective intrusion detection systems to mitigate potential conflicts and promote harmonious relationships. Detecting the intrusion of
06488|Class-Aware Contrastive Learning for Few-Shot Crop Disease Recognition
   > deep learning models rely heavily on large-scale annotations and often exhibit poor generalization in few-shot scenarios. To address this issue, this paper proposes a class-aware … baselines, including metric-based and conventional convolutional models, achieving superior accuracy and improved generalization capability. Cross-dataset evaluation further verifies the effectiveness of the method in h
06489|Sugarcane Aphid (Hemiptera: Aphididae) on Sorghum. I. Population Characteristics and Dispersion Patterns in Relation to Different Sample Unit Sizes
   > on the lower green leaf nodes early in the infestation, with the distribution shifting toward higher green leaf nodes as the infestation progressed. Aphid densities … fixed aphid density per sample unit, the proportion of infested sample units decreased with increasing sample unit size. For a fixed aphid density per cm2,
06490|A foundation model of wearable pulse oximetry reveals physiological signatures of health and cardiometabolic risk
   > significantly outperformed existing open-source and proprietary feature extraction methods while demonstrating robust generalization in an external out-of-distribution cohort. PulseOx-FM representations predicted 64 phenotypic targets spanning cardiometabolic, and neuropsychiatric domains … explained by next-day dietary intake. These findings suggest that PulseOx-FM provides a generalizable framew
06491|Differentiation of storage time of wheat seed based on near infrared hyperspectral imaging
   > [no abstract]
06492|RMNA: ROI-Mixup and Neighborhood Alignment for Cross-Domain Plant Disease Classification
   > disease classification. However, large-scale studies reveal significant performance drops on images from unseen environments due to insufficient data diversity relative to the variability in disease symptoms. Although various techniques including domain adaptation have been proposed, there still remain many struggles under substantial domain shifts. To address this, we propose ROI-mixup and neighb
06493|Enabling Plant Phenotyping in Weedy Environments using Multi-Modal Imagery via Synthetic and Generated Training Data
   > calibration. Results demonstrated that combining synthetic data with limited manual annotations and cross-domain translation via generative models can significantly boost segmentation performance in complex field
06494|Stability and adaptability concepts of bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) in the northwest of Tunisia
   > indicate that genotypes need to be tested during several years and at different locations for selecting the most stable one. The results showed that all
06495|Abnormality Detection in Maize Fields Using Selective Domain Adaptation-Driven Data Augmentation
   > [no abstract]
06496|Imaging in the Behaving Brain
   > [no abstract]
06497|Summary for CIFE Seed Proposals for Academic Year 2020-21 Proposal number: 2020-04 Proposal title: Hybrid Physical-Digital Spaces: Transforming the De
   > [no abstract]
06498|Image Based Classification of Soybean Leaf Diseases in Maharashtra Using CNN
   > regularization to reduce the overfitting. The experimental evaluation revealed that the models trained on the augmented and segmented datasets achieved superior performance compared to those trained on the original dataset, with the best model achieving a classification accuracy … categories. These findings demonstrate the effectiveness of CNNs in feature extraction under real-world conditions and
06499|Wildlife Detection and Behavioral Analysis in Farmland using YOLOv8m and LSTM
   > six animal species, namely bison, leopard, elephant, deer, wild boar, and bear, trained on a custom dataset. DeepSORT is used to track the detected animals
06500|A Deep Learning Approach with Uncertainty Estimation to Assess Aboveground Biomass Mapping of Tropical Rainforest in Thailand
   > with similar geographical characteristics were evaluated. Results show high uncertainty in the out-of-distribution data areas, with %RRMSE for Pará rubber, mixed deciduous forest, and dry
06501|On the effectiveness of persistent homology
   > effective for limited computational resources and limited training data, as well as out-of-distribution test data, including various data transformations and noise. For convexity detection, we
06502|Identification of Candidate Chemosensory Gene Families by Head Transcriptomes Analysis in the Mexican Fruit Fly, Anastrepha ludens Loew (Diptera: Teph
   > [no term] Insect chemosensory systems, such as smell and taste, are mediated by chemosensory receptor and non-receptor protein families. In the last decade, many studies have focused on discovering these families in
06503|Auto-CM: Unsupervised Deep Learning for Satellite Imagery Composition and Cloud Masking Using Spatio-Temporal Dynamics
   > often require large volumes of up-to-date training data to be reliable and generalizable over space. We propose an autonomous image composition and masking (Auto-CM) framework
06504|OrchardDA-YOLO: a semi-supervised domain adaptation object detection framework for orchard scenarios
   > [no abstract]
06505|Three Case Studies in Quantitative Approaches to Agroecosystem Management
   > [no abstract]
06506|A Domain-Adapted Multi-Source Ensemble Framework for Real-Time Crop Recommendation in Indian Agro-Zones
   > paper introduces an integrated crop recommendation framework that combines multi-source agricultural data, domain adaptation, and real-time environmental intelligence. The system utilizes two visually and statistically … Five heterogeneous models (Random Forest, XGBoost, LightGBM, CatBoost, and TabNet) are trained independently, and their class probability outputs are aggregated through a stacked 
06507|Hybrid Vision Approaches for Sustainable Agri-Food Automation: Comparing YOLOv8 and Classical Techniques in Produce Sorting
   > detectors and traditional baselines in precision, recall, and mAP, even under challenging real-world conditions. The framework achieved near-perfect performance across three fruit categories: 98% accuracy
06508|[Machine Learning-based Prediction of Carbon Fluxes in Terrestrial Ecosystems in China and Its Response to Land Use Change].
   > [no abstract]
06509|Digital Emulation System for Combined Cycle Plants Based on Machine Learning
   > Programmable Gate Array) device. This allows the emulator to make predictions for different locations, provided the necessary parameters are adjusted.
06510|Identification And Classification Of Plant Leaf Diseases Using Neural Networks
   > [no abstract]
06511|Plant-GeoAT: Geometry-Aware Organ Identity Parsing of 3D Plant Point Clouds for Organ-Level Phenotyping
   > laser-scanned Pheno4D maize and tomato datasets; these are within-dataset train/test experiments, not cross-dataset transfer or domain-generalisation tests. Across five seeds, mIoU was 92.26 ± 0.28%, 82.50 ± 0.24%, … ranged from 3/6 to 4/6 samples across seeds. Plant-height consistency was assessed independently on all 60 reconstructed rapeseed samples. The results indicate that geometry-to-contex
06512|Risk-Aware Fruit Ripeness Recognition under Synthetic Distribution Shift via Selective Classification and Conformal Prediction Sets
   > can reach high accuracy on curated test sets, yet their reliability can degrade under distribution shift and when decisions are made at scale. This paper studies risk-aware … and set sizes for APS/RAPS, and end-to-end inference latency with and without test-time augmentation (TTA). Across backbones, in-domain Top-1 accuracy exceeds 99% while selective classification sharply reduces retained-set er
06513|Intra- and interspecific phenotypic variation in mammals and its effect on biodiversity under climate warming
   > [no abstract]
06514|Wildlife impact on cultivated lands: A multi-temporal spatial analysis
   > and woody parts of crops, removal of seeds, crushing of cultivations, soil degradation. In this regard, a multi-temporal geolocalization and quantification of wildlife impact in
06515|Mapping by VESGEN of Wing Vein Phenotype in Drosophila for Quantifying Adaptations to Space Environments
   > the H-C2 overexpression phenotypes. However, ectopic veins increased in number from 1 in the wild type, to 18 in Class 5 H-C2. We therefore demonstrate
06516|Current status of the environmental monitoring database on the accident at Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant
   > and analyse this data because it was published in different formats at different sites according to the respective objectives of the publishing organisations. Moreover, these
06517|Advanced Cloud Computing and Machine Learning Framework for NDVI Time-Series Analysis and Environmental Change Detection
   > data fusion and uncertainty quantification mechanisms are introduced to enhance the model's cross-sensor adaptability and result interpretability. Deployment on a cloud platform verifies the system's
06518|RISK ANALYSIS OF INVADED POTATO TUBER MOTH, Phthorimaea operculella, (ZELLER) (LEPIDOPTERA:GELECHIIDAE:) TO TOMATO
   > [no abstract]
06519|Maximum mean discrepancy enhanced Informer for accurate cross-domain dual-timescale effluent prediction in wastewater treatment plants.
   > wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) is constrained by scarce high-quality data and insufficient cross-domain generalization. To address these challenges, this study proposes a framework featuring an Informer … Discrepancy (MMD), aiming to achieve robust transfer prediction with fine-tuning across multiple independent timescales under data-scarce conditions (defined as using ≤ 20% of target domain 
06520|Calibration of pathogenicity due to variant-induced leaky splicing defects by using BRCA2 exon 3 as a model system
   > [no term] These findings demonstrate that BRCA2 tumor suppressor function tolerates substantial reduction in full-length transcripts, helping to determine the pathogenicity of BRCA2 leaky splicing variants, some of which may not increase
06521|Optimizing Industry 5.0 Machine Learning-Based Applications via Synthetic Data Generation
   > various Deep Generative Models (DGMs) to generate synthetic data that closely mimics real-world conditions. Despite extensive studies of DGMs in the literature, there is still
06522|A Novel Method Based on Source Domain Understanding and Modeling to Transfer Labels from Land-Cover Vector Maps to Classifiers for Multispectral Image
   > reliable and informative samples from the map. Finally, the method carries out Domain Adaptation (DA) using a recent MS image to update the map. Experimental
06523|ST-LoRA: Single Trajectory LoRA Ensemble for Uncertainty Aware Agricultural Segmentation
   > pepper, glasshouse) - using SegFormer and Mask2Former, covering in-distribution performance, calibration under distribution shift, and out-of-distribution detection. Ablations show feed-forward layers, not attention layers, are the critical LoRA
06524|Inferring a complete genotype-phenotype map from a small number of measured phenotypes
   > effects for each mutation. The addition of specific pairwise- and high-order-epistatic coefficients decreased the predictive power of the model. We evaluated our predictions by experimentally
06525|Solar Irradiance Forecasting Utilizing Distributed and Federated Learning
   > data sets required for model training usually come from various data in different regions and organizations, and it is difficult to ensure data security and
06526|Tackling Environmental Variability: Few Shot Segmentation for Domain-Adaptive Weed Segmentation in Agricultural Robotics
   > in weed management within agricultural robotics but can be negatively impacted by domain shifts, often requiring adaptation, hindering the development of the field. In this … model, adapted from PFENet, exhibits robust performance across varying environmental conditions, mitigating domain shift issues. Evaluation on the ROSE dataset demonstrates the model’s reliability and generalizability, highli
06527|Causal-informed domain adaptation with cross-attention for predicting anomalous effluent quality fluctuations in wastewater treatment plants.
   > to influent variability and process diversity. To address this, a causal-informed temporal domain adaptation model enhanced with cross-attention (CA-TDA) is proposed for time-series prediction. Unlike … variational autoencoder (VAE), upon which cross-attention identifies key driving factors for effective cross-domain adaptation. Experiments show that even when the target domain contains only 8.35 
06528|Wild-Animal Recognition in Agriculture Farms Using W-COHOG for Agro-Security
   > [no abstract]
06529|Explainable Prediction of Combined Cycle Power Plant Output Using SHAP and LOYO-Validated Tree Ensembles
   > develops a machine learning framework incorporating interquartile range-based winsorization, median imputation, and Leave-One-Year-Out (LOYO) cross-validation to prevent temporal leakage. Three models are evaluated, a spline-augmented Generalized Additive Model (GAM), Gradient Boosting Regressor, and HistGradientBoosting Regressor. Hyperparameters are optimized
06530|Analisis Sistem Penjualan Beras Bulog di Perum Bulog Kantor Wilayah Kota Jambi
   > [no term] Perum Bulog is a state-owned enterprise (SOE) tasked with maintaining the availability and stability of food prices, particularly rice. Nevertheless, consumer preferences and satisfaction regarding Bulog rice in Jambi City
06531|High‐Throughput Robotic Phenotyping for Quantifying Tomato Disease Severity Enabled by Synthetic Data and Domain‐Adaptive Semantic Segmentation
   > [no term] Plant diseases cause an annual global crop loss of 20%–40%, leading to estimated economic losses of 30–50 billion dollars. Tomatoes are susceptible to more than 200 diseases. Breeding disease‐resistant cultivars
06532|Frequency-Entropy Coupled Loss for Robust Potato Leaf Disease Recognition
   > [no abstract]
06533|Benchmarking Geospatial Foundation Models for Field-Scale Crop Green-Up Detection: Alphaearth vs. Prithvi-EO-2.0 with Sentinel-1 SAR Fusion
   > are sensitive to cloud contamination and computationally heavy. Geospatial foundation models (GFMs) pre-trained on large Earthobservation archives offer a data-driven alternative for capturing the spectral-temporal … over Nebraska (2022-2024), we find that: (i) SAR fusion is decisive for cross-year generalization, raising every model to $r \approx 0.75-0.81$; (ii) the dense decoder dominates
06534|From synthesis to soil: transformations and impacts of nanoparticles in agroecosystems.
   > physical (aggregation, sorption), chemical (dissolution, redox processes), and biological (microbial transformation, enzymatic degradation). We evaluate the cascading effects of NPs on soil physicochemical and biological
06535|Classifying California plant species temporally using airborne hyperspectral imagery
   > multiple dates (by season, by year, and from all dates), and creating leave-one-out (LOO) libraries that pooled spectra from all dates but one. Canonical discriminant … they better-incorporated changes in spectra due to phenology. Spectral libraries were not transferable across dates, with mean kappa accuracies dropping to 0.31–0.73 for LOO spectral
06536|Post-processing of global horizontal irradiance forecasts using machine learning
   > for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts) models for global horizontal irradiance forecasts for 6 different locations in Hungary. Five machine learning models were used, within which 12
06537|Cephalic Index of Population of Rayalaseema Region of Andhra Pradesh: A CT based Study
   > [no abstract]
06538|The fundamental and realized vertical niches of Avicennia germinans in a Florida marsh-mangrove ecotone
   > niche of A. germinans will expand in the ecotone as dispersal limitations decrease. Understanding the vertical niche of A. germinans improves our ability to predict local mangrove distribution shifts and better plan for restoration. 
06539|1RS.1BL molecular resolution provides novel contributions to wheat improvement
   > [no term] Wheat-rye 1RS.1BL translocation has a significant impact on wheat yield and hence food production globally. However, the genomic basis of its contributions to wheat improvement is undetermined. Here, we generated
06540|Research on Lightweight Rose Disease Detection Based on Transferable Feature Representation
   > two main obstacles. First, models trained under controlled laboratory conditions suffer performance degradation due to domain shift when deployed in complex field environments. Second, the computational capacity of … these problems, this study proposes a practical knowledge distillation approach based on transferable feature representations from a pre-trained teacher model, rather than on complex 
06541|First record of Amphisbaena lumbricalis (Squamata, Amphisbaenidae) in the state of Pernambuco, Brazil: including a distribution map and soil classific
   > [no abstract]
06542|The Spectrum of IDH- and H3-Wildtype High-Grade Glioma Subgroups Occurring across Teenage and Young Adult Patient Populations
   > [no term] Abstract Purpose: High-grade gliomas (HGG) occur in any central nervous system location and at any age. HGGs in teenagers/young adults (TYA) are understudied. This project aimed to characterize these tumors
06543|Establishment and Accuracy Analysis of the Atmospheric Weighted Mean Temperature Model in Yunnan Province
   > linear regression model, the proposed method shows higher stability and applicability in different regions and seasons. The constructed high-precision Tm model can provide refined meteorological
06544|Weizen¨ahrenerkennung mithilfe neuronaler Netze und synthetisch generierter Trainingsdaten
   > two neural networks (U-Net and DeepLab-V3+). To determine whether these data allows domain adaptation, the trained networks are evaluated using real wheat field images. The
06545|Enhancing Wind Turbine Blade Defect Detection via an Improved YOLOv11
   > adjusts the parameters of the convolution kernel to provide customized processing for different regions. In the experimental evaluation, the recognition accuracy of each model is
06546|A Review on Role of IoT and Machine Learning in Agriculture
   > [no term] The agricultural area has undergone a significant transformation owing to the progress made in IoT. It is imperative to have a dependable remote monitoring solution right now. This study aims
06547|DExNet: Combining Observations of Domain Adapted Critics for Leaf Disease Classification with Limited Data
   > correctly detecting and classifying plant diseases, they require large-scale datasets to learn generalized features and achieve state-of-the-art performance. This poses a challenge for such models … limited data in both laboratory and real-life conditions in single-domain, mixed-domain, and cross-domain scenarios.
06548|Smart Crop Protection from Animals in Real Time using Convolutional Neural Networks
   > [no term] Crop damage caused by animals such as birds, and wild animals is a significant challenge for farmers worldwide. Traditional methods such as fences, chemical repellents, and scarecrows are often ineffective
06549|[Medicine-geography relationship of Gentiana rigescens based on habitat and quality suitability].
   > [no abstract]
06550|Mechanical and Thermal Properties of Self-Assembled Kaolin-Doped Starch-Based Environment-Friendly Nanocomposite Films
   > [no term] Environment-friendly advanced materials are promising candidates for the engineering of nanoscience and nanotechnology. Here, starch–kaolin self-assembled nanocomposite films were prepared using potato starch and an indigenous layered material, kaolin. The
06551|A hydroponics based high throughput screening system for Phytophthora root rot resistance in chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.)
   > [no term] Phytophthora root rot (PRR) caused by P. medicaginis is a major soil borne disease in chickpea growing regions of Australia. Sources of resistance have been identified in both cultivated and
06552|Proposed Solar-Powered Motion Sensor for Farm Monitoring and Surveillance: A Solar-Powered Assisted Process
   > distinguishing rodents from other detected objects. The solar-powered system operates continuously which decreases human intervention needs and enhances farm surveillance capabilities. The model demonstrates its … to defend crops from rodent damage and enhance farm resistance against land degradation threats. Conclusion The proposed system demonstrates progress in uniting renewable energy systems
06553|Predictive Method for Correct Identification of Archaeological Charred Grape Seeds: Support for Advances in Knowledge of Grape Domestication Process
   > [no term] The identification of archaeological charred grape seeds is a difficult task due to the alteration of the morphological seeds shape. In archaeobotanical studies, for the correct discrimination between Vitis vinifera
06554|КОНСТРУЮВАННЯ ЗАПИТІВ ДЛЯ КЛАСИФІКАЦІЇ ЗЕМНОГО ПОКРИВУ БЕЗ НАВЧАЛЬНИХ ПРИКЛАДІВ ЗА ДОПОМОГОЮ МУЛЬТИМОДАЛЬНИХ МОВНИХ МОДЕЛЕЙ НА ЗНИМКАХ SENTINEL-2
   > 13.2%) on 10 Sentinel-2 tiles. In Variant B, each segment is processed independently using a binary mask, which simplifies spatial interpretation and reduces inter-segment interference. … require large labeled datasets and significant computational resources, especially when adapting to new regions. Recent multimodal language models, including GPT-4.1, Claude 3.7 Sonnet, and Gemini
06555|Synthetic gene as target to assess the sensitivity of PCR to detect Trichinella spp. larvae in meat from a non-endemic region
   > [no abstract]
06556|Real-Time Wildlife Tracking and Anomaly Detection Using YOLOv8
   > animal populations in their natural habitats. By leveraging images captured from cameras in the wild or controlled settings, the system can identify and categorize various
06557|Performance evaluation of YOLOv8 and YOLOv9 on custom dataset with color space augmentation for Real-time Wildlife detection at the Edge
   > [no term] Wild animals pose significant challenges in agricultural environments, necessitating effective monitoring solutions for both agricultural management and wildlife preservation. Leveraging novel deep learning algorithms for real-time animal detection holds great
06558|The distribution shifts of Pinus armandii and its response to temperature and precipitation in China
   > cultural and ecological value. We wish to test the correlations between the distribution shift of P. armandii and changing climate, and figure out how it … elevation was considered together with temperature and precipitation as variables correlated with distribution shifts of P. armandii. Results We show that P. armandii is undergoing
06559|Applying the Long-Term Memory Algorithm to Forecast Loss of Thermoregulation Capacity in Honeybee Colonies
   > [no term] Bees are the main pollinators of most wild and cultivated plant species, thus being essential for the maintenance of plant ecosystems and for food production. But they are threatened due
06560|BD Open LULC Map: High-resolution land use land cover mapping & benchmarking for urban development in Dhaka, Bangladesh
   > Bing and Sentinel-2A imagery. BOLM aims to support reliable deep models and domain adaptation tasks, addressing critical LULC dataset gaps in South/East Asia.
06561|Adversarial Learning Based Discriminative Domain Adaptation for Geospatial Image Analysis
   > performance is limited by availability of high-quality labeled data in large quantities. Domain adaptation approaches propose a solution to this problem by leveraging quality labeled … from auxiliary data sources. In this work, we use adversarial learning for domain adaptation for remote sensing applications. First, we approached the problem of unavailable target domain labels with unsupervised do
06562|Validation of Diaporthe toxica resistance markers in European Lupinus angustifolius germplasm and identification of novel resistance donors for marker
   > [no term] The fungus, Diaporthe toxica, anamorph Phomopsis sp., previously classified as P. leptostromiformis, is a plant endophyte and occasional pathogen, causing Phomopsis stem blight. This disease is damaging not only to
06563|Characterization, Classification and Mapping of Soils of Agricultural Landscape in Tana Basin, Amhara National Regional State, Ethiopia
   > [no abstract]
06564|Advancements in AI-Based Techniques for Intelligent Plant Disease Detection
   > diverse model architectures. The analysis identifies major research gaps, including limited dataset generalization, environmental variability, and the lack of explainability in AI models. Future perspectives … on the integration of multimodal data (images, sensor readings, and environmental factors), domain adaptation, and self-supervised learning to enhance robustness and scalability. .
06565|Land use change and its impact on the conservation of wild Elephas maximus in China during the past 40 years
   > [no abstract]
06566|The ability of magnetic field sensors to monitor feeding in three domestic herbivores
   > of chewing different food items were more difficult to discern from one another. Comparison of chew:bite ratios of the various food types eaten by each
06567|SRasP: Self-Reorientation Adversarial Style Perturbation for Cross-Domain Few-Shot Learning
   > Cross-Domain Few-Shot Learning (CD-FSL) aims to transfer knowledge from a seen source domain to unseen target domains, serving as a key benchmark for evaluating the robustness and transferability of models. Existing style-based perturbation methods mitigate domain shift but often suffer from gradient instability and convergence to sharp minima. … Applying the stabilized perturbations during traini
06568|Overleaf Example
   > [no abstract]
06569|Aptidão agrícola de latossolos de diferentes regiões maranhenses
   > [no abstract]
06570|Land to the Tiller: The Sustainability of Family Farms
   > many different forms and functions, conditioned by the structure of agriculture in different locations and political systems. Our review accepts this diversity and seeks to
06571|Screening optimal substrates from Erhai lakeside for Ottelia acuminata (Gagnep.) Dandy, an endangered submerged macrophyte in China
   > [no abstract]
06572|A two-stage Deep Convolutional Generative Adversarial Network-based data augmentation scheme for agriculture image regression tasks
   > predict a vector of regression values associated with the dissipation rates at different locations of the agricultural field. CNNs, however, require large datasets to successfully … realistic enough with the objective to augment the original dataset, for better generalization capabilities and more accurate predictions by the trained CNN. Unlike existing GAN-based
06573|Research in infectious disease in wild birds
   > [no term] Trichomoniasis, caused by a protozoan parasite, has been known for many years in pigeons and doves and also in birds of prey, but in 2005 it emerged in finches, first
06574|Comparing a random forest based prediction of winter wheat yield to historical production potential
   > exceeded historical yield predictions. Thus, modeling current yield could be unreliable in future years as technology progresses.</p> 
06575|Artificial Intelligence in Pediatric Cardiovascular Genetics: From Multimodal Diagnosis to Risk Prediction and Precision Therapeutics
   > candidates for precision therapies. The strongest pediatric cardiovascular evidence currently comes from externally evaluated ECG and echocardiographic models and from large outcome-prediction cohorts, whereas many … evidence remains limited by retrospective design, small or selectively assembled rare-disease cohorts, domain shift, population bias, incomplete calibration, and uncertain clinical ut
06576|Soybean pod and seed counting in both outdoor fields and indoor laboratories using unions of deep neural networks
   > Moreover, we enhanced YOLO architecture by integrating it with HQ-SAM (YOLO-SAM), and domain adaptation techniques (YOLO-DA), to improve model robustness and generalization across soybean images taken in outdoor fields. Testing on soybean images from
06577|Modern transformation of deserted settlements in the Sudetes Mountains, SW Poland
   > [no term]  The aim of the study was to present and to classify current processes and phenomena which are observed within the depopulated villages in the Kłodzko region in SW Poland,
06578|Deep Learning-Based Object Detection Algorithm for Chinese Medicinal Plants
   > reaching 198.2 FPS. The method combines real-time speed with strong robustness and generalization, offering an effective solution for automated identification and resource surveys.
06579|Cauliflower Disease Identification and Classification: A Comprehensive Review
   > ambiguous disease labels, the lack of calibration analysis, and the lack of external testing. Immediate research priorities are identified as multilocation validation, plant-level data partitioning, pathogen-informed ground truth, uncertainty estimation, lesion-level explanation, and computationally efficient edge
06580|ClimateCV: The Potential of Computer Vision Applications in Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation
   > a critical gap between laboratory performance and operational reliability. Models struggle with domain shifts, lack uncertainty estimates, and lack workflow integration. This paper explores CV
06581|Design and Implementation of An Autonomous AI-Based Wild Animal Detection and Repellent System for Crop Protection
   > [no term] Human-wildlife conflict (HWC) causes an estimated 40% crop loss in border farming communities across South Asia, with annual damages exceeding ₹12,000 crore in India alone. Traditional deterrent methods including electric
06582|Detection and Recognition of Species using Deep Convolution Neural Network
   > [no abstract]
06583|Assessment of the genetic diversity of some local squash (Cucurbita maxima Duchesne) populations revealed by agro-morphological and chemical traits
   > [no abstract]
06584|Choose Settings Carefully: Comparing Action Unit Detection At Different Settings Using A Large-Scale Dataset
   > use in our investigation a large-scale dataset, consisting of ~55K videos collected in the wild for participants watching commercial ads. The preprocessing settings include scaling
06585|Computable phenotypes for cohort identification: core content for a new class of FAIR Digital Objects
   > which is understood as the ability to implement a phenotype at a different site with similar performance (Shang et al. 2019). While portability is increasingly … to making CPs FAIR. These include transparency in cohort selection, and better generalizability of results. FAIR CPs may also increase the potential for robust comparisons
06586|AGILE: A Diffusion-Based Attention-Guided Image and Label Translation for Efficient Cross-Domain Plant Trait Identification
   > Semantically consistent cross-domain image translation facilitates the generation of training data by transferring labels across … this work, we introduce AGILE (Attention-Guided Image and Label Translation for Efficient Cross-Domain Plant Trait Identification), a diffusion-based framework that leverages optimized text embeddings and
06587|Smart Animal Detection and Alert System Using IOT
   > [no term] On account of farmlands or rural terrains reconnaissance is vital to keep unapproved individuals from accessing the region as well as to shield the region from animals. Different techniques point
06588|PhenoBench: A Comprehensive Benchmark for Cell Phenotyping
   > prominent pathology FMs in terms of dense cell phenotype predictions in different generalization scenarios. We perform extensive benchmarking of existing FMs, providing insights into their generalization behavior under technical vs. medical domain shifts. Furthermore, while FMs achieve macro F1 scores>0.70 on previously established benchmarks
06589|A Study on Enhancing Object Detection of Bell Pepper Pests and Diseases Through Image Segmentation
   > on during learning. If the object detection model tends to focus on other regions during learning, this study will use deep learning-based image segmentation to
06590|Functional analysis of rare variants in mismatch repair proteins augments results from computation-based predictive methods
   > [no abstract]
06591|DIVERSITY AND DISTRIBUTION PATTERN OF ALIEN PLANT SPECIES ALONG THE ALTITUDINAL GRADIENT IN DISTRICT PAURI, UTTARAKHAND, INDIA
   > [no term] Human activities are involved in direct destruction of habitats. Next to man alien invasive plants are major threats to natural ecosystem. The present study attempts to understand baseline information which
06592|PULSE-ICU: A Pretrained Unified Long-Sequence Encoder for Multi-task Prediction in Intensive Care Units
   > (ICU) data are highly irregular, heterogeneous, and temporally fragmented, posing challenges for generalizable clinical prediction. We present PULSE-ICU, a self-supervised foundation model that learns event-level … mortality, intervention forecasting, and phenotype identification, achieving strong performance across task types. External validation on eICU, HiRID, and P12 showed substantial improve
06593|An efficient behavioral screening platform classifies natural products and other chemical cues according to their chemosensory valence in C. elegans
   > [no term] Throughout history, humans have relied on plants as a source of medication, flavoring, and food. Plants synthesize large chemical libraries and release many of these compounds into the rhizosphere and
06594|An Efficient AdaBoost and CNN Hybrid Model for Weed Detection and Removal
   > [no term] With the aid of AI-based methods like convolution neural networks, this article seeks to enhance weed detection and removal. A plant that is not wanted and is growing wild, especially
06595|Orchard Areas Segmentation in Remote Sensing Images via Class Feature Aggregate Discriminator
   > make the semantic segmentation model impossible to use in new data. Unsupervised domain adaptation (UDA) methods can improve the performance of the model in the target domain by aligning the source domain and the target domain. However, due to the class mismatch problem and the interference of … The larger gain indicates that our proposed method has great potential in cross-domain orchard areas se
06596|A Comparative Study on Out of Scope Detection for Chest X-ray Images
   > decision-making, it is critical that a model can recognize and describe such out-of-distribution (OOD) inputs. The objective of this study is to investigate the efficacy … classification methods and HealthyGAN perform t he best overall. However, HealthyGAN cannot generalize to unseen scenarios, while classification models still retain some performance advantage. We also investigate
06597|TomaMMU: A Comprehensive Multimodal Understanding Benchmark for Tomato Leaf Diseases
   > translate visual perception into reliable diagnostic knowledge, motivating the need for targeted domain adaptation. Simple fine-tuning on TomaMMU substantially narrows this gap, boosting accuracy on
06598|Agents Robust to Distribution Shifts Learn Causal World Models Even Under Mediation
   > In this work, we prove that agents capable of adapting to distribution shifts must have learned the causal model of their environment even in
06599|Multifactorial Imaging Analysis as a Platform for Studying Cellular Senescence Phenotypes
   > phenotypes by integrating LysoTracker and MitoTracker microscopy and SA-β-gal/FACS, p16INK4a immunostaining provides independent confirmation of proliferative arrest. Combined nutrient deprivation and genotoxic challenge elicited the
06600|Implementation of Web-based Realtime Monitoring System Using YOLOv8 for Green Box Detection and Automatic Capture in Navigation Missions at the Indone
   > provide a robust and scalable solution for real-time monitoring. Tests conducted under real-world conditions confirm the system's efficiency and reliability. Future work may involve hardware
06601|Elevational variation in trichomes of the alpine subnival woolly plant Eriophyton wallichii: Abiotic and biotic correlates and impacts on other traits
   > [no abstract]
06602|Tomato disease degree recognition based on RGB and Lab color space conversion method
   > network model is proposed to diagnose the disease severity of tomato infection. Different regions of tomato leaf image had obvious threshold differences in Lab color
06603|Editorial for “Prospective Evaluation of Repeatability and Reproducibility of Radiomic Descriptors in Healthy Brain Tissue Regions in Vivo Across Syst
   > range of diseases based on diverse imaging modalities and contrasts, and across different sites. Radiomic analysis is comprised of extracting a large set of image-based … field strength, etc. that result in different image contrasts, and therefore limit generalizability of the developed imaging signatures in prospective patients, or across different centers.
06604|Multispectral UAV Image Classification of Jimson Weed (Datura stramonium L.) in Common Bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.)
   > influence of ground sampling distance (GSD) on model performance; and improving model generalization by (III) incorporating the use of vegetation indices and cumulative distribution function … combining spectral data from multiple common bean fields with the use of leave-one-group-out cross-validation (LOGO CV). Logistic regression models were created using data from fields at four different locat
06605|Medicinal Plant identification in the wild by using CNN
   > [no term] Plant identification based on deep learning received many attention and effort from the research community with many promising results. It becomes an active trend in the recent years. We apply
06606|Land cover mapping in Latvia using hyperspectral airborne and simulated Sentinel-2 data
   > [no abstract]
06607|A Comprehensive Analysis of Weather Prediction Model Using Machine Learning Techniques
   > at handling big data and non-linear relationship among the atmospheric variables, which decreases their accuracy in predicting rainfall. To make famous the limitations characteristic to … next generation of efforts will refine these models for real-time prediction and generalizing to other regions areas.
06608|Animal Activity Recognition Using Convolutional Neural Network
   > [no term] It will be beneficial to observe and track animal behavior in order to avoid human-wildlife conflicts HWC. The introduction of wild animals produces multiple losses in a variety of biome
06609|ABO AND RHESUS BLOOD GROUP DISTRIBUTION IN URBAN AREA OF SOUTHERN PUNJAB MULTAN PAKISTAN
   > [no term] This study was conducted to find out the distribution of ABO phenotypes frequencies in urban area of Southern Punjab Multan Pakistan. A total of 1087 subjects (both male & female)
06610|Prediction of Isoform Functions and Interactions with ncRNAs via Deep Learning
   > [no abstract]
06611|Special-purpose Model Extraction Attacks: Stealing Coarse Model with Fewer Queries
   > [no term] Model extraction (ME) attacks have been shown to cause financial losses for Machine-Learning-as-a-Service (MLaaS) providers. Attackers steal ML models on MLaaS platforms by building substitute models using queries to and
06612|Abstract 6172: Artificial intelligence-powered spatial analysis of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes reveals immune-excluded phenotype is correlated with
   > [no term]  Aberrant transforming growth factor-beta(TGF-B) pathway in the tumor microenvironment has been highlighted as one of the core resistance pathways of immunotherapy, by excluding tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) out of the
06613|Agri-DETR: An Efficient Visual Obstacle Detection Framework for Intelligent Agricultural Machinery in Unstructured Field Environments
   > small-object AP increases by 1.4%, demonstrating improved detection capability for small obstacles. Cross-dataset evaluation on COCO2017 further shows that Agri-DETR achieves 48.3% AP, demonstrating favorable generalization capability beyond the agricultural domain. These results indicate that Agri-DETR achieves an
06614|One-Time Training for All Grains: Open-Set Grain Recognition and Quantitative Analysis
   > for efficient variety recognition and quantitative analysis. However, existing methods are typically trained on a fixed variety set, and incorporating newly introduced varieties requires additional … models. Extensive experiments under progressive variety expansion, varying grain densities, and background domain shifts demonstrate the scalability, robustness, and adaptability of GROW. Compared wit
06615|Annotated image dataset of fire blight symptoms for object detection in orchards
   > [no term] The monitoring of plant diseases in nurseries, breeding farms and orchards is essential for maintaining plant health. Fire blight (Erwinia amylovora) is still one of the most dangerous diseases in
06616|Optimizing Parcels Sorting Through Reinforcement Learning for Intralogistics
   > capable of managing only a limited number of parcel types/sorting scenarios. To generalize and fully automate the sorting process in intralogistics, we propose to employ … equipped with cameras for machine vision implementation and performance evaluation. In-distribution and out-of-distribution ( i.e. , with parcel types not considered in the off-line training)
06617|DepthCropSeg++: Scaling a Crop Segmentation Foundation Model With Depth-Labeled Data
   > and vision models have been developed. These models have demonstrated remarkable real-world generalization due to significant model capacity and large-scale datasets. However, current crop segmentation … DepthCropSeg, an almost unsupervised approach to crop segmentation, to scale up a cross-species and cross-scene crop segmentation dataset, with 28,406 images across 30+ species and
06618|Reducing Frequent Killing of Elephants from train collisions using Machine Learning
   > [no abstract]
06619|A temporal perspective on the reliability of wildfire hazard assessment based on machine learning and remote sensing data
   > [no abstract]
06620|SICD6mA: Identifying the 6mA Sites on Human and Rice Genomes using Deep Memory Network
   > [no abstract]
06621|Economic Modeling of Water Need Determination in Lebanon: Implication for Lebanon’s Agriculture
   > prices, diminishing reserves of oil and the discovery of larger deposits in other regions of the world, the dependence on solar and renewable energy sources … the needed water per crop per ton. A regression model with four independent variables was used to cover Wheat, Veggies, Citrus, and Apples, along with
06622|A deep study on real-time atmospheric aerosols and variability over Indian subcontinent environment
   > variability are studied to find the reasons for difference in magnitude over different regions. Rainfall naturally influences the variability aerosols due to scavenging, but if … cause of aerosol loading over a region. Measures can be taken to decrease the loading if it is due to local sources.
06623|Spatial Prediction of Crop Quality in Precision Farming
   > preserve the spatial rank order of observed yield across a monitoring network, independent of whether its absolute output is correct, and does it do so … tested, directly-computed or simulated, and this result holds under permutation, bootstrap and leave-one-out validation. However, it is not significantly stronger than the best directly-computed alternative,
06624|Active Learning-Driven Lightweight YOLOv9: Enhancing Efficiency in Smart Agriculture
   > analyzed to redefine an operational target range, thereby improving learning stability under real-world conditions. Second, an efficient feature extraction module is incorporated to reduce computational
06625|Cross-Regional Land Cover Mapping from Sentinel-2: Machine Learning vs. Deep Learning Approaches
   > of both classical machine learning models and deep learning approaches in a cross-regional setting using Sentinel-2 imagery. The EuroSAT dataset was employed for training, focusing … metrics. The findings highlight the effectiveness of spectral sequence modeling in enhancing generalization to unseen regions and provide insights for scalable remote sensing applications.
06626|Eliminating open gears in spiral classifiers: Five-year validation of reliability and economic benefits
   > the root cause of mechanical instability (wear, lubricant leakage, misalignment) while simultaneously degrading the quality of diagnostic signals, thereby impeding the deployment of PdM/AI. The … evaluation of the long-term reliability and economic feasibility of direct drive under real-world conditions, and to demonstrate how removal of the failure root cause creates
06627|A Narrative Review of Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI)-Based Time-Series Crop Yield Prediction Using Machine Learning and Deep Learning
   > examined. Key challenges in data quality, temporal alignment, and model performance across different regions and seasons are identified. By highlighting current research gaps, this review
06628|ICPTC: Iranian commercial pistachio tree cultivars standard dataset
   > was collected from natural habitats of different trees of Pistachio cultivars, in real-world conditions from pistachio orchard farms of Chah-Afzal region in Ardakan County, Yazd,
06629|Learn2Reg - The Challenge (2021) (copy): Structured description of the challenge design
   > [no abstract]
06630|Matrix based univariate and multivariate linear similar day approach towards short term solar radiation forecasting
   > [no abstract]
06631|Design and Implementation of an Automated Control System for Anomaly Detection Using an Enhanced Intrusion Detection System
   > [no term] In forest zone and the field of agriculture, the conflict between human beings and wild animals is a vital problem to be addressed since it results in the extinction of
06632|Characterization and comparative analysis of the complete chloroplast genome sequence from Prunus avium ‘Summit’
   > [no term] Background Sweet cherry (Prunus avium) is one of the most popular of the temperate fruits. Previous studies have demonstrated that there were several haplotypes in the chloroplast genome of sweet
06633|Adaption of Compact Deep Learning Models through Fine Tuning for Javanese Character Recognition
   > to non-Latin characters. This difference in visual structure gives rise to a domain shift, as pretrained models such as MobileNetV2 and EfficientNet are trained using … regional characters. To overcome this problem, this study proposes a fine-tuning-based Morphographic Domain Adaptation approach on the MobileNetV2 architecture combined with morphographic augmentation strategies. The
06634|Position Encoding in Detection-Based LiDAR–Camera Matching: A Diagnostic Study At Infrastructure Sites
   > (including 2D-only) by 65%–93%, suggesting that learnable position fusion may contribute to cross-site generalization failure, together with appearance/domain shift. A two-stage Top-<inline-formula><tex-math notation="LaTeX">$K$</tex-math></inline-formula> retrieve with a refine pipeline also reduces
06635|Dynamic Perturbation Cross-Domain Segmentation Network for Rice False Smut Using UAV imagery
   > Semantic segmentation networks for rice false smut (RFS) often encounter domain shift due to varietal differences in cross-domain segmentation tasks across different rice varieties. Traditional augmentation techniques used in cross-domain segmentation tend to lead to issues such as lesion texture degradation, information loss, and overfitting. To address these issues, this study proposes a Dynamic
06636|Predicting the Potential Geographical Distribution of Rhodiola L. in China under Climate Change Scenarios
   > evaluated the importance of environmental factors in shaping their distribution, and identified distribution shifts under climate change scenarios. The results indicate that the growth distribution … Qinghai, Sichuan, northern Yunnan, and southern Gansu in China, are projected to decrease under the 2070 climate scenario. Given these results, the four species included
06637|Predicting the Geographical Distribution Shift of Medicinal Plants in South Africa Due to Climate Change
   > [no term] There has been a recent rise in the number of medicinal plant users in Southern Africa, with approximately a million users reported to utilize these plants for various health conditions.
06638|BIG DATA ANALYTICS AND PRECISION ANIMAL AGRICULTURE SYMPOSIUM: Data to decisions.
   > [no abstract]
06639|PMCI: A Prototype-Based Diagnostic Index for Cross-Modal Affective Agreement
   > was tested, confirming that PMCI is sensitive to both pose-estimation accuracy and domain shift. Finally, PMCI must be interpreted as a probabilistic diagnostic index of
06640|ArticleRice-Field Mapping with Sentinel-1A SAR Time-Series DataLena Chang 1
   > [no abstract]
06641|AgriCLIP: Adapting CLIP for Agriculture and Livestock via Domain-Specialized Cross-Model Alignment
   > remarkable zero-shot capabilities and has been utilized in several applications. However, models trained on general everyday web-crawled data often exhibit sub-optimal performance for specialized domains, likely due to domain shift. Recent works have tackled this problem for some domains (e.g., healthcare)
06642|Interspecific interactions, population variation, and environmental forcing in the context of the community
   > [no term] We evaluated the contribution of interspecific interactions, intraspecific processes, and environmental forcing to variation in species’ abundance in a habitat undergoing rapid successional change. We applied a Bayesian hierarchical approach
06643|Detecting weeds from crops under complex field environments based on Faster RCNN
   > [no term] The power of deep learning in object detection has widely been investigated, demonstrating promising results in recent years. In precision agricultural applications, weed detection plays an indispensable part in site-specific
06644|Studies on fruit morphology, nutritional and floral diversity in less-known melons (Cucumis melo L.) of India
   > [no abstract]
06645|Multi-omics profiling of the gut Microbiota–Metabolism–Immunity axis reveals predictive biomarkers of treatment response and survival in diffuse large
   > (CCA), random forest modeling, and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis were used to integrate cross-domain data and evaluate predictive performance.ResultsMicrobial Dysbiosis and Diversity Loss in DLBCL: DLBCL
06646|Proposal and Evaluation of A Method for Automatically Classifying Images of Agricultural Work and Animals Acquired with Motion Sensor Cameras
   > [no term] We have developed a field monitoring system (http://kansatu.net) using network-connected cameras and sensors installed in apple trees to support the hands-on agriculture curriculum of an elementary school. The system enables
06647|Classification of Medicinal Wild Plants Using Radial Basis Function Neural Network with Least Mean Square
   > [no term] Wild plants are considered as plants whose growth interferes with other plants. However, in its development it turns out that wild plants contain ingredients for medicines. However, information and knowledge
06648|Machine learning-based Acoustic Repellent System for Protecting Crops against Wild Animal Attacks
   > [no term] In this paper, we present some insights on the issue of crop destruction by wild animals. This is a serious concern for the affected farmers throughout the world and leads
06649|Advancing Rice Blast Disease Classification Through CNN-LSTM Integration
   > wide range of datasets, the model proved to be quite good at generalizing to new environments, which bodes well for its practical use in farming. It appears
06650|HOFLON: Hybrid Offline Learning and Online Optimization for Process Start-Up and Grade-Transition Control
   > mining historical start-up and grade-change logs, yet standard offline RL struggles with distribution shift and value-overestimation whenever a learned policy ventures outside the data envelope.
06651|Transferability and Robustness in Proximal and UAV Crop Imaging
   > farms, the main bottleneck is no longer raw accuracy but robustness under distribution shift. Systems trained in one field, season, cultivar, or sensor often fail … changes in realistic ways. This review synthesizes recent advances on robustness and transferability in proximal and UAV imaging, drawing on a corpus of 42 core
06652|Changes in abundance and distribution of European forest bird populations depend on biome, ecological specialisation and traits
   > components of spatial distribution: range change (i.e. area shrinkage or expansion) and distribution shift (i.e. latitudinal adjustments), both over the last 30 years. We also considered specialist groups of different biomes (i.e. boreal, temperate, Mediterranean and biome generalists) separately. We showed that boreal forest species have declined in abundance and
06653|Abstract A014: Making invisible tumor truths visible: CHIMERA-DDR score unmasks clonal complexity and concurrent DNA repair deficiencies in advanced p
   > cutoff (18.61 mutations/Mb) was identified via logistic regression with cross-validation. Validation included leave-one-out cross-validation, independent cohort (n=37), cellularity analysis, and 130 patients with immunotherapy outcomes. [Large language … (AUC 0.919-0.999), resolved admixed phenotypes, and quantified pathway dominance in concurrent deficiencies. Cross-site validation (52 samples, 2
06654|Impacts of a severe drought on vegetation and hydrological systems in the Yangtze River Basin, China
   > that can improve drought prediction and enhance human resilience to droughts across different regions and basins. The first step is to reconstruct various drought processes,
06655|A Review on Artificial Intelligence Methods for Plant Disease and Pest Detection
   > strong emphasis on critical analysis, discussing fundamental limitations related to data scarcity, domain shift, generalization under field conditions, and the challenge of disentangling biotic from abiotic stress
06656|MCB-SwinUNet: attention-gated skip fusion framework for multi-crop leaf lesion segmentation with cross-domain generalization and boundary accuracy
   > However, current segmentation methods prioritize global overlap metrics above edge precision and cross-domain generalization. We suggest Boundary-Aware MCB-SwinUNet for plant leaf lesion segmentation across various crop … selfattention capturing multi-scale lesion features superior to CNNbased approaches; and (3) multi-crop cross-domain training framework showing that cross-crop generalization is 
06657|A novel method to classify exercise response in patients with cardiac amyloidosis - The RoMa classification.
   > across classes (p=0.36). Functional capacity declined across the RoMa strata: median 6MWD decreased from 420 m (RoMa I) to 313 m (RoMa IV) (overall p=0.009;
06658|Solar fuels by artificial photosynthesis: from inorganic to hybrid multifunctional materials
   > [no abstract]
06659|A Closed-Loop Measurement Study of Runtime Governance in AI-Driven Smart Building Climate Control
   > conditions? We develop a closed-loop software-in-the-loop testbed in which a setpoint model trained on real occupancy data drives a physics-based thermal zone through a declarative governance plane, with outcomes scored by an independent safety oracle, and we run the same governance logic on a real … with an in-process policy decision point and a hash-chained audit log. Under distribution shift, a
06660|Facial Action Unit Detection with ViT and Perceiver Using Landmark Patches
   > [no term] The expressions of the human face are defined by the contraction of facial muscles. The most widely used and accepted standard that provides the description of all visual changes on
06661|SOLAR RADIATION PREDICTION USING TEMPORAL GAUSSIAN PROCESS REGRESSION
   > [no abstract]
06662|Functional analysis of novel variants identified in cis in the PCCB gene in a patient with propionic acidemia.
   > [no term] Next-generation sequencing has improved the diagnosis of inborn errors of metabolism, allowing rapid confirmation of cases detected by clinical/biochemical studies or newborn screening. The challenge, however, remains for establishing the
06663|Abstract 1193: Adult diffuse glioma GWAS by molecular subtype identifies variants in D2HGDH, FAM20C and GMEB2
   > [no term] Background: Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) revealed that 25 regions in 24 genes are associated with adult diffuse glioma development. These regions were identified by performing GWAS of glioma overall and
06664|Climate change and pesticide resistance: A synthesis on emerging mechanisms and evolutionary dynamics.
   > costs of resistance through mostly positive effects on voltinism and population abundance, distribution shifts and migration, and consequent increased insecticide use and selection pressure. Finally,
06665|ForestSim: A Synthetic Benchmark for Intelligent Vehicle Perception in Unstructured Forest Environments
   > [no term] Robust scene understanding is essential for intelligent vehicles operating in natural, unstructured environments. While semantic segmentation datasets for structured urban driving are abundant, the datasets for extremely unstructured wild environments
06666|Solar Radiation and Water Stress Are Major Environmental Drivers of the Latitudinal Pattern of Leaf Si Concentration in Woody Plants
   > concentrations but similar latitudinal trends of leaf Si, together with their latitudinal distribution shifts, intensify this pattern.High leaf Si concentration is an important adaptive strategy
06667|Utilising embeddings for maps of winter wheat and crop rotation in Henan China during 2018-2024
   > complex feature engineering, and extensive labelled samples, limiting their scalability and spatiotemporal generalisation. To address these challenges, this study explores the potential of the AlphaEarth … compare multiple lightweight classifiers to identify an optimal model and conduct spatiotemporal generalization experiments across Henan Province from 2018 to 2024 using only limited labelled
06668|1 Land , income and land-use diversification in Khyber 2 Pakhtunkhwa province of Northern Pakistan 3
   > [no abstract]
06669|De novo assembly of Iron-Heart Cunninghamia lanceolata transcriptome and EST-SSR marker development for genetic diversity analysis
   > [no term] Iron-Heart Cunninghamia lanceolata, a wild relative of Chinese fir with valuable genetic and breeding traits, has been limited in genetic studies due to a lack of genomic resources and markers.
06670|Long term climatic trends in Chile and effects on soil moisture and temperature regimes.
   > long term climate change has already affected the SMR and STR in different locations of the country. Historical values (1912-2015) of monthly precipitation and temperature … not change between periods. Additionally, in south central Chile there was a decrease of annual moist days when the soil temperature is ≥ 5 °C,
06671|Determination of zinc and iron in wheat using laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy
   > surface of the wheat sample. Twenty-five single shot spectra were recorded at different sites of the same pellet. The data were normalized to exclude shot-to-shot
06672|Micronutrient Requirements and Sharing Capabilities of the Human Gut Microbiome
   > by several pathway intermediates (vitamers) such as thiazole, quinolinate, dethiobiotin, pantoate. A cross-species comparison was applied to assess the extent of conservation of vitamin phenotypes
06673|Climate change increases threat to plant diversity in tropical forests of Central America and southern Mexico
   > [no term] Global biodiversity is negatively affected by anthropogenic climate change. As species distributions shift due to increasing temperatures and precipitation fluctuations, many species face the risk of extinction. In this study,
06674|A Dataset for Detection and Segmentation of Underwater Marine Debris in Shallow Waters
   > in discriminative tasks, replicating this success on underwater data is challenging. The generalization of these methods suffers due to a lack of available annotated data … using Faster RCNN and YOLOv6 models. Furthermore, we demonstrate the non-triviality of generalizing the trained model performance to unseen sites and cameras due to domain shift. This underscores the value of the presented data
06675|Discrimination between wild-grown and cultivated Gastrodia elata by near-infrared spectroscopy and chemometrics
   > [no term] Abstract Gastrodia elata is a notable medicinal and edible plant. Wild-grown Gastrodia elata is rare in nature and expensive for its medicinal value, which is often the subject of fraudulent
06676|Stylized Meta-Album: Group-bias injection with style transfer to study robustness against distribution shifts
   > (12 content datasets, and 12 stylized datasets), designed to advance studies on out-of-distribution (OOD) generalization and related topics. Created using style transfer techniques from 12 subject classification … domain configurations-including scenarios with many minority groups, varying group imbalance, and complex domain shifts-and for studying fairness, robustness, and adaptation under a broa
06677|Between the Trees: Quantifying Koala Ground Movement for Conservation Action
   > [no term] Simple Summary This study addresses the limited understanding of koala movement on the ground—a behaviour that, while representing only a small fraction of their day, poses the greatest risk to
06678|FishTwoMask R-CNN: Two-stage Mask R-CNN approach for detection of fishplates in high-altitude railroad track drone images
   > [no abstract]
06679|Analisis Kesesuaian Lahan Tanaman Kapas di Kabupaten Muna
   > [no term] Muna Regency has started trying to make efforts to develop cotton plants based on land suitability analysis as a form of support in increasing the quality and quantity of woven
06680|Detection of Three Fruit Maturity Stages in Wild Blueberry Fields Using Deep Learning Artificial Neural Networks
   > [no abstract]
06681|Mask-guided multistage food recognition via adaptive segmentation and efficient classification
   > detection-based methods (Faster R-CNN + EfficientNet: 0.689 ±0.011, Mask R-CNN: 0.698 ±0.009). Cross-dataset evaluation on Food-101 validates the framework's generalization capability with only 7.6% performance drop compared to 10-12% for baseline methods.
06682|Study on the variation of stable isotopic fingerprints of wheat kernel along with milling processing
   > fractions (bran, germ, break flour, reduction flour) in three genotypes from three different locations in five years (2012–2016) was investigated. Isotope ratio mass spectrometry (IRMS)
06683|MRI Reconstruction with Regularized 3D Diffusion Model (R3DM)
   > reconstruction performance with several undersampling patterns, as well as with in- and out-of-distribution pre-trained data. In experiments, we show that our method improves upon tested
06684|Object-Proposal Evaluation Protocol is ‘ Gameable ’ ( Supplement )
   > [no abstract]
06685|Do soil properties with elevation affect alpine "grass-line"? Findings from Haibei, northern Tibetan Plateau
   > <p>Many species showed that their richness and distribution shifts climate-driven towards higher elevation in Tibetan Plateau. However, vegetation and soil
06686|Cross-dataset micro-expression identification based on facial ROIs contribution quantification
   > Abstract In this work, we propose a novel cross-dataset micro-expression identification method based on facial regions of interest contribution quantification, where … target samples, so as to complete the category recognition of micro-expressions. Extensive cross-dataset comparative experiments on four spontaneous micro-expression datasets, CASME, CASME II, SMIC-HS, and
06687|Physics-guided contrastive temporal graph learning for anomaly detection and root-cause localization in industrial control systems
   > The method follows three main steps. First, a self-supervised contrastive encoder is trained only on normal data to learn robust representations of sensor windows. Augmented … module operates on the learned embeddings to capture both time evolution and cross-sensor relations. Anomaly score is computed from graph representations and node level scores
06688|Crop Advancement with Machine Learning
   > yields to our predictions and conducting experiments by growing different crops in different locations. Overall, this project demonstrates the potential of machine learning algorithms for
06689|Identification and Functional Annotation of Long Intergenic Non-coding RNAs in the Brassicaceae
   > is a need for a harmonized identification and annotation effort to enable cross-species functional and genomic comparisons. In this study we processed >24 Tbp of
06690|Reinforcing the Arsenal: Advanced Antibiotic Adjuvants as Strategic Disruptors of Bacterial Defenses.
   > [no abstract]
06691|Fuzzy match index for scale-invariant feature transform (SIFT) features with application to face recognition with weak supervision
   > [no abstract]
06692|PERK‐Mediated Cholesterol Excretion from IDH Mutant Glioma Determines Anti‐Tumoral Polarization of Microglia
   > [no term] Isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) mutation, a known pathologic classifier, initiates metabolic reprogramming in glioma cells and has been linked to the reaction status of glioma‐associated microglia/macrophages (GAMs). However, it remains unclear
06693|Electrophysiological phenotypes of synaptic transmission and neural network in hippocampal neurons of the α7-nAChR knockout mice.
   > [no abstract]
06694|Efficient calibration updating using descriptive model vectors for domain adaptation in multivariate spectroscopy
   > [no abstract]
06695|An Unsupervised Domain Adaptation Approach to Classification of Stem Cell-Derived Cardiomyocytes
   > [no abstract]
06696|LULC Segmentation in Historical Images Under Domain Shift: An Empirical Study
   > evolution in this period. We propose to use a convolutional neural network trained on labelled years images to predict LULC maps from 13 intermediate years
06697|Source-Free Few-Shot Soil Recognition via Vision-Language Token Recalibration
   > expert annotation are also costly, which limits target-domain training. To address source-free, cross-domain few-shot soil recognition, this paper proposes a CLIP-based framework that integrates vision-language … 74.01% (5-shot), significantly outperforming existing state-of-the-art methods and demonstrating its effectiveness in cross-domain soil image classification.
06698|Porting and Execution of Anomalies Detection Models on Embedded Systems in IoT: Demo Abstract
   > billion MCUs were shipped, and over 250 billion MCUs are already operating in the wild. Such low-power, low-cost MCUs are being used as the brain
06699|Environment predicts the maintenance of reproductive isolation in a mosaic hybrid zone of rubber rabbitbrush
   > for transgressive hybridization to contribute to phenotypic novelty and the colonization of new environments in E. nauseosa.
06700|Spatio-Temporal Changes Of Aquatic Vegetation In Honghu Lake Show That Its Ecological Environment Is Deteriorating
   > the coverage of open water increased to 72% in 2021, only to decrease again to 11.6% in 2024. These changes highlight the ongoing ecological deterioration
06701|A Mathematical Framework for Analyzing Wild Tomato Root Architecture
   > [no term] The root architecture of wild tomato, Solanum pimpinellifolium, can be viewed as a network connecting the main root to various lateral roots. Several constraints have been proposed on the structure
06702|KING OF THE HILL? HOW BIOTIC INTERACTIONS AFFECT BIOGEOGRAPHICAL PATTERN AND SPECIES RESPONSES TO CLIMATE CHANGE
   > [no abstract]
06703|Evaluation of Sheath Blight Resistance in Diverse Rice Varieties Under Artificial Inoculation and Field Conditions
   > [no term] Rice (Oryza sativa L.) a vital food crop for nearly half of the global population, facing significant threats from various biotic and abiotic stresses. Among biotic stresses, diseases pose the
06704|Hyperspectral signatures and betalain indicator for beet mosaic virus infection in sugar beet
   > [no term] Remote sensing technologies provide the potential to support the breeding process of crop cultivars. The presented work suggests a new phenotyping routine for sugar beet genotypes, resistant or tolerant to
06705|Predicting Evapotranspiration Using IoT Sensor Node and Support Vector Machine
   > [no term] A Support Vector Machine learning algorithm has been created to predict the evapotranspiration rate (mm/day) for a pilot farm that showcases diverse seasonal conditions. An earlier developed IoT-based soil sensor
06706|Broadband active sound control system with selective virtual sensing
   > convergence time and the computational load can be reduced compared with time domain adaptation when there are many correlated reference signals, such as in the … signals. The performance of this virtual sensing algorithm is known to be degraded if the properties of the reference signals change, however. It may still
06707|Universal Image Alignment Converter: A Deep Learning-Based Approach to Cross-Domain Image Alignment
   > deformation field. Additionally, UIRT adopts a multi-stage training strategy that integrates progressive domain adaptation with numerical stability optimization. This approach effectively mitigates issues related to
06708|Numerical Analysis of Added Mass Coefficient for Outer Tubes of Tube Bundle in a Circular Cylindrical Shell
   > [no abstract]
06709|PrivAgriVolt: Privacy-Preserving Shadow-Aware Vision for Crop Stress Diagnosis in Agrivoltaic Photovoltaic Systems
   > layout and sun-angle priors into a shadow-aware appearance canonization network, reducing illumination-induced domain shift across times and sites; (ii) a federated contrastive stress learner that
06710|Agriculture Protection from Animals Using Smart Scarecrow System
   > [no abstract]
06711|Performance Comparison of Artificial Neural Networks and Random Forest for Water Quality Prediction
   > in testing, and an average RMSE of less than 6. Sensitivity to data partitioning is a common problem in small datasets with extreme values. The … suitability for assessing groundwater quality was similar, with Random Forest showing better generalisation-resistance to fitting and prediction accuracy. The results validate the potential of implementing
06712|Leaf Detection: Techniques and Applications
   > to environmental factors. Future directions and emerging trends in multi-modal leaf detection, domain adaptation, integration of remote sensing technologies, and advanced image analysis techniques are
06713|Investigating the distributional response of the rare and endangered plant Fritillaria przewalskii to climate change based on optimized MaxEnt model
   > for F. przewalskii will shrink by the 2050s and 2090s, with its distribution shifting toward higher elevations and latitudes. In conclusion, this study aims to
06714|scTransMIL Bridges Patient-Level Phenotypes and Single-Cell Transcriptomics for Cancer Screening and Heterogeneity Inference
   > [no abstract]
06715|Analysis on Mechanical Behavior of the Exhausting Steam Pipe in Air-Cooled System under Complex Loads:An Example for Air-Cooled Island in a Thermal Po
   > [no abstract]
06716|Agricultural Image Processing: Challenges, Advances, and Future Trends
   > deployment. The study identifies that attention mechanisms, Transformers, multi-scale feature fusion, and domain adaptation can enhance model robustness under complex conditions. Self-supervised learning, transfer learning,
06717|Multicenter Evaluation of Tissue Classification by Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionization Mass Spectrometry Imaging.
   > spectrometric imaging data is possible; however, comprehensive studies assessing variation and classifier transferability are largely lacking. This study evaluated the generalization of tissue classification based on Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometric imaging (MSI) across measurements performed at different sites. Sections of a tissue microarray (TMA) consisting
06718|Agricultural Yield Prediction Using Hybrid Metaheuristic Optimization and Token-Based Transformer
   > yields. Unlike traditional sequential models, the proposed approach treats agricultural parameters as independent tokens, allowing the Transformer to learn complex relationships between various farming factors … more efficient and accurate prediction model. Experiments across diverse agricultural datasets from different regions show that the hybrid model demonstrated an average improvement of 18
06719|Classification of Ocean Surface Slicks in Simulated Hybrid-Polarimetric SAR Data
   > incident angles that directly impact the backscatter intensities. We evaluate several classifiers, domain adaptation strategies, and multilooking strategies. Hybrid-polarimetric SAR data are simulated from the … five different Radarsat-2 quad-pol images that cover slicks of known types, and tested on 10 different Radarsat-2 quad-pol images covering various ocean surface slicks. The
06720|Genome-wide comparative analysis of the JmjC gene family in Setaria italica and Setaria viridis reveals transcriptional divergence and stress-responsi
   > [no term] Introduction Histone demethylation mediated by Jumonji C (JmjC) domain-containing proteins is a pivotal epigenetic mechanism governing plant development and stress adaptation. However, a comprehensive characterization of this family in foxtail
06721|Advanced Surveillance Robot for Farm
   > [no term] The development & design of Advanced Surveillance Robot for Farm which is a smart, automated system specially designed for protection of crops from wild animals. It uses wireless technology, live
06722|Sound Based Machine Learning for Inserts Wear Detection in Interrupted Cutting
   > interrupted turning, recurrent impact loading accelerates wear progression; timely detection of insert degradation is therefore essential to preserve surface quality and avoid costly, unplanned production … noise and provide a reproducible baseline for future work on robustness to domain shift, self-supervised pretraining, and multimodal extensions.
06723|DIRECTIONS OF ENSURING THE EFFICIENCY OF PRODUCTION OF CROP PRODUCTS IN AGRICULTURAL ENTERPRISES
   > [no term] The subject of the study covers the practical principles of crop production. The purpose of the study is to substantiate promising directions for ensuring the production of plant products in
06724|Evidence of flowering time advance in blue lupin (Lupinus angustifolius) in the last decades revealed by herbarium data and citizen science databases
   > data with modern databases improves our ability to study plant phenology and distribution shifts in response to global change. This study evaluates changes in the
06725|A high-throughput behavioral screening platform for measuring chemotaxis by C. elegans
   > [no term] Throughout history, humans have relied on plants as a source of medication, flavoring, and food. Plants synthesize large chemical libraries and release many of these compounds into the rhizosphere and
06726|Comprehensive Review of Four-Wheel Independent Drive and Steering Systems: Integrating Double Ackermann Kinematics, Advanced Trajectory Tracking, and 
   > The transition from conventional front-wheel steering to over-actuated four-wheel independent steering and driving architectures has fundamentally redefined the limits of robotic mobility … this review provides a consolidated roadmap for addressing the remaining challenges in domain adaptation and real-time edge computing for the next generation of autonomous terrestrial
06727|Physical and sensory properties of corn flakes with added dry residue of wild oregano distillation
   > of wild oregano positively influenced the physical char­acteristics of the corn flakes (decrease in the bulk density by 30.2 %, and increase in the expansion rate by 44.9 %), as well as led to decrease in their texture hardness andwork of compression by 42.8 and 40.3 %,
06728|Mapping crops within the growing season across the United States
   > of full-season accuracy). The study employed a scalable cluster-then-label model that was trained on multiple years of MODIS NDVI using ground truth data in the … crop classifier was trained and validated on the years 2008–2014, then tested independently on 2015–2018. Ecoregion-level crop classification performed better than state-level and CONUS-level classification.
06729|From reference-genome prediction to causal generalization: sequence-to-function models for plant regulatory genomics
   > observational and perturbation assays, and proposes evaluation frameworks based on biologically meaningful distribution shifts. We further outline how pan-genomes, multi-omics, genome editing, reporter assays, active … judged not only by reference-genome accuracy, but by calibrated and experimentally validated generalization across plant diversity.
06730|A Database for Soybean Seed Classification
   > from random rotations to ensure a comprehensive representation. Additionally, seeds from three different locations, each labeled by different experts, are included in the database. No … classification dataset provides location information. This allows for the evaluation of the generalization capabilities of the model on seeds collected on previously unseen regions. Experiments were conducted and c
06731|Forecasting vegetation index based on vegetation-meteorological factor interactions with artificial neural network
   > [no abstract]
06732|A Practical Fog-Based Deep Vision System for Wildlife Intrusion Monitoring
   > [no term] Farmers in forest regions often struggle with wild animals entering their fields. This problem continues to disrupt agricultural activity and cause financial loss. Traditional monitoring systems tend to be slow
06733|Towards Safe and Sustainable Agricultural Reconstruction in Ukraine: Insights from Satellite-Based Crop Classification Maps
   > methodology to inform policy decisions and support reconstruction efforts in Ukraine and other regions facing similar challenges.
06734|Structured Layout Priors for Robust Out-of-Distribution Visual Document Understanding
   > view as a fallback when detections are noisy. On a 10k-page structural out-of-distribution benchmark, markdown F1 rises from $0.37$ to $0.92$; on the Chinese subset
06735|Estimation of Exchangeable Sodium Percentage with the Aid of Sodium Adsorption Ratio in Sedimentary Soils
   > approximate relationships between ESP and SAR have been reported for soils in different regions of the world. Since there is possibility that these relationships change … and saturation percentage of soils, it seems essential doing specific studies for different regions. The purpose of this research was to i) find the relationship
06736|Multivariate Modelling of Water Quality Parameters in Nigeria
   > fairly uniform and more than adequate supply for human needs, while many other regions have a greater need for water than they can supply. Water
06737|Man, plant remains, diet: spread and ecology of Prunus L. in Sardinia
   > [no abstract]
06738|Response to comments Pedro Tarroso
   > [no abstract]
06739|High-resolution cropland extraction in Shandong province using MPSPNet and UNet network
   > large-scale cropland. We also apply the trained models to the images of different regions and different time phases for the extraction of cropland, and explore the generalization ability of the models. The landscape features of cropland and uncertainty results … The two models can obtain better cropland extraction effects in images of different regions and different time phases, and have strong ge
06740|DeepFace-EMD: Re-ranking Using Patch-wise Earth Mover's Distance Improves Out-Of-Distribution Face Identification
   > cosine similarity between their image embeddings. Yet, such approach suffers from poor out-of-distribution (OOD) generalization to new types of images (e.g., when a query face is masked,
06741|Exploring land-use histories of tree-crop landscapes: a cross-site comparison in the Mediterranean Basin
   > [no term] Agroforestry landscapes in the Mediterranean Basin have emerged in a co-evolution between humans and nature and provide numerous ecosystem services to society. Tree crops are iconic elements of these landscapes
06742|Cross-Species Transfer Learning in Agricultural AI: Evaluating ZebraPose Adaptation for Dairy Cattle Pose Estimation
   > livestock, especially dairy cattle. This study evaluates the potential and limitations of cross-species transfer learning by adapting ZebraPose - a vision transformer-based model trained on synthetic zebra imagery - for 27-keypoint detection in dairy cows under … APT-36K benchmark dataset, and their combination, we systematically assessed model accuracy and generalization across environments. Whil
06743|Typologies and influencing factors in the absorption of European funding for sustainable rural development
   > Development (EAFRD). The study highlights that different mechanisms are at work in different regions and there is a need to build analysis at the local
06744|IOP Conference Series: Materials Science and Engineering: Preface
   > geography and increasing the number of participants. More than 320 participants from different regions of Russian Federation as well as from Asia and Europe will
06745|Classification of Abnormality in Chest X-Ray Images by Transfer Learning of CheXNet
   > model also influenced by the certain region inside the images, such as other regions outside the lung region and black colored region outside the body
06746|GreenHyperSpectra: A multi-source hyperspectral dataset for global vegetation trait prediction
   > trait prediction from hyperspectral data is challenged by label scarcity and substantial domain shifts (\eg across sensors, ecological distributions), requiring robust cross-domain methods. Here, we present GreenHyperSpectra, a pretraining dataset encompassing real-world cross-sensor and cross-ecosystem samples designed to benchmark trait prediction with semi- and self-supervised methods. We adopt
06747|Design and Development of River Health Monitoring System Using Arduino UNO
   > The degradation of river ecosystems poses a significant threat to biodiversity and human health … of water bodies. The system was tested in both controlled environments and real-world conditions, demonstrating reliable data collection and transmission capabilities. Comparative analysis with laboratory
06748|Class-Balanced Random Patch Training to Address Class Imbalance in Tiling-Based Farmland Classification
   > and year as the training data, and a test set from a different year and region to simulate domain shifts. Our approach improved the F1 scores of minority classes and overall … difficulty. These results demonstrate that the proposed method offers a practical and generalizable solution for addressing class imbalance in tiling-based remote sensing classification, particularly under real-world conditi
06749|Cuicatec ethnozoology: traditional knowledge, use, and management of fauna by people of San Lorenzo Pápalo, Oaxaca, Mexico
   > [no term] BackgroundThe Tehuacán-Cuicatlán Valley is a region of outstanding biocultural diversity, harboring eight indigenous ethnic groups and a remarkable biodiversity in a territory 10,000 km2 extent. Ethnobotanical studies of the region
06750|Phenotypic and morphometric diversity of local chickens (BRAHMA) from wilaya of Tlemcen, Northwestern of Algeria
   > farmers. A total of 67 individuals from the Brahma phenotype hens at different locations in the Tlemcen wilaya were investigated to identify and classify these
06751|ZeroWaste Dataset: Towards Automated Waste Recycling
   > [no abstract]
06752|Crop protection from animals based on machine learning
   > [no term] This paper will discuss the present level of research and development on human-wildlife conflicts, there are bad interactions between humans and wild animals that are bad for both the resources
06753|Exploring Augmentation-Driven Invariances for Graph Self-supervised Learning in Spatial Omics
   > poorly aligned or overly complex augmentations may fail to help or even degrade performance. These findings highlight the central role of augmentation design in enforcing
06754|Enhanced Wheat Head Detection in Images Using Fourier Domain Adaptation and Random Guided Filter
   > robustness of wheat head detection in wheat images. A combination of Fourier domain adaptation (FDA), adaptive alpha beta gamma correction (AABG) and random guided filter … the Fourier domain, aligning its distribution with a randomly selected image of another domain. AABG adjusts image properties based on local statistics of the image
06755|AgriGPT: a Large Language Model Ecosystem for Agriculture
   > compiles credible data sources into Agri-342K, a high-quality, standardized question-answer (QA) dataset. Trained on this dataset, AgriGPT supports a broad range of agricultural stakeholders, from … and complexities. Experiments demonstrate that AgriGPT significantly outperforms general-purpose LLMs on both domain adaptation and reasoning. Beyond the model itself, AgriGPT represents a modular and
06756|Shifts in the altitudinal distribution of alien and native synanthropic plants along roadsides over a 40-year period
   > emphasize human disturbance and global warming as pivotal factors influencing the altitudinal distribution shift in both native and alien plant species.
06757|Development of a Prevention System for Beast Damage of Agricultural Products Using Deep Learning
   > [no term] Otoyo-City of Kochi Prefecture in Japan is an aging city with serious challenges. One problem is wild monkeys, which have appeared several years ago. Agricultural crop damage has been caused
06758|Leveraging Deep Learning for Comprehensive Plant Disease Classification: A Pathway to Sustainable Agriculture
   > such as data augmentation and normalization are used to enhance the model’s generalization ability by preprocessing. The best performing RNN architectures and CNN models have … measured in terms of F1-score, recall, accuracy, or precision. Class imbalance and domain shift as well as limited labeled data are other challenges, but targeted
06759|Interbasin Transfers and Water Risk in the United States
   > [no abstract]
06760|High-resolution image dataset for the automatic classification of phenological stage and identification of racemes in Urochloa spp. hybrids
   > are widely used forages in the Neotropics and are gaining importance in other regions due to their role in meeting the increasing global demand for
06761|Cloud-Resilient NDVI Estimation for Smallholder Paddy Fields from Single-Date Sentinel-1 SAR Using an Enhanced U-Net++
   > pixelwise, structural, and perceptual constraints. On a strictly held-out test set from unseen years (2018 and 2025; 2,939,829 pixels), pixel-wise mode aggregation achieves a mean … and Pearson correlation of 0.556, outperforming published singledate SAR-to-NDVI baselines under temporal out-of-distribution shifts. A simple post-hoc linear calibration restores near-ideal dynamic range with negligib
06762|Segmentation-Guided Hybrid Transformer with Prototype-Calibrated Learning for Field-Ready Plant Leaf Disease Diagnosis
   > field images suffer from illumination shifts, background clutter, and class imbalance, which degrade model reliability. This work proposes an end-to-end pipeline for robust plant leaf … handle imbalance and sharpen decision boundaries; an uncertainty-weighted ensemble stabilizes predictions under domain shift. To improve minority classes, an Adaptive Augmentation module synthesizes realistic varia
06763|Detection of crown rot in wheat utilising near-infrared spectroscopy: towards remote and robotic sensing
   > environmental factors on spectral sensitivity detection accuracy. Transferring such technology from a laboratory to field environment presents challenges, particularly in regard to producing adequately robust
06764|Integrated Approaches for Agricultural Landscape Monitoring and Plant Disease Management
   > specific area is difficult because of the varied soil types found in different regions. To address this challenge, Machine Learning (ML) model is utilized to
06765|Cross-Year Crop and Land-Cover Classification with Limited Labels
   > of constructing dense labels for every target year. This study evaluated a cross-year crop and land-cover classification framework using Sentinel-2 imagery in Jiyuan City, China. … for multi-year crop mapping within the study area, while broader temporal and spatial transferability require further validation.
06766|IoT Enabled Early Warning System for Human Wildlife Conflict Mitigation Using AI
   > in the field in Uttarakhand, India, where it exhibited consistent performance under real-world conditions. Experimental results achieved over 90% detection confidence, with alerts sent in
06767|Reusability Report: Evaluating the performance of a meta-learning foundation model on predicting the antibacterial activity of natural products
   > with only a small amount of new data. Here, to investigate the generalizability of the model, we looked to fine-tune the foundation model on an … of accuracy on the antibacterial NPs dataset as it did on other cross-domain tasks reported in the original publication. However, ActFound displayed comparable or better
06768|Outdoor scene labeling using deep convolutional neural networks
   > [no abstract]
06769|Wild mammals through the lens of biomass rather than biodiversity
   > [no term] Human activities have put increasingly severe stress on populations of wild vertebrates throughout the biosphere. Most of the attention to the global status of wildlife has focused on numbers of
06770|International Collaboration is the Only Way to Protect Ourselves from the Next Pandemic
   > [no term] The COVID-19 pandemic has had a profound impact on global health and well-being during the last 2 and a half years. It has also laid bare just how devastating pandemics
06771|Ecological niche differentiation and climate change response of Origanum elongatum and Origanum compactum in northern Morocco
   > [no term] This study investigates the ecological niches and projected climate-driven distributional shifts of two endemic Moroccan species, Origanum compactum and Origanum elongatum , both of high ecological and socio-economic importance. The
06772|Morphometric analysis of wild potato leaves
   > accessions corresponding to 12 species of wild and cultivated potatoes, collected from different sites across the American continent, were analyzed using computer vision and morphometric
06773|Assessing heavy metal contamination in agricultural soils: a new GIS-based Probabilistic Pollution Index (PPI) – case study: Guarda Region, Portugal
   > global agricultural problem, as these elements can be absorbed by plants and transferred to humans through the food pathway. Current contamination assessment methods rely on … The methodology for calculating the PPI is cost-effective and easily replicable in other regions, making it a practical tool for broad applications. This index was
06774|Temporal generalization of an artificial neural networks for land use/land cover classification
   > evaluated the performance of an Artificial Neural Network (ANN) in the temporal generalization of the Land Use and Land Cover (LULC) classes in the surroundings … classification from multitemporal scenes using a single-date trained ANN indicate the ANN's generalization capability and its potential in multitemporal analyzes. In addition, the 2016 classification,
06775|RF-based 3D skeletons
   > maintains this accuracy even in the presence of multiple people, and in new environments that it has not seen in the training set. Demo videos
06776|Urgent propagation of the endemic and possibly extinct in the wild tree Cassine koordersii (Celastraceae)
   > The IUCN Red List classifies it as Critically Endangered (CR) possibly extinct in the wild. Currently, there are only two living collections at the Bogor
06777|Maximum Entropy Modeling Predicts Factors Influencing Ecological Suitability of the Plant Trillium camschatcense in Northeast China
   > camschatcense based on historical climate data (1970–2000), and further simulate its potential distribution shifts under multiple future climate change scenarios to predict long-term habitat variation
06778|Bridging domain gaps in agricultural 3D point cloud classification using adversarial domain adaptation
   > Domain adaptation in agricultural settings has traditionally focused on 2D imagery, leaving a … plant monitoring and classification. In this paper, we propose an adversarial unsupervised domain adaptation framework for 3D point cloud classification in agriculture, addressing the domain shift between controlled (Crops3D) and real-world (Pheno4D) datasets. Our approach leverages a
06779|Counting congested crowds under wild conditions with a multi-task Inception network
   > [no term] Counting of congested crowds has been widely applied in surveillance event detection, public safety control, and traﬃc monitoring. Early studies mainly focus on designing hand-crafted features. However, counting performance based
06780|Explaining Kinetic Isotope Effects in Proton-Coupled Electron Transfer Reactions
   > [no term] Proton-coupled electron transfer (PCET) is essential for a wide range of chemical and biological processes. Understanding the mechanism of PCET reactions is important for controlling and tuning these processes. The
06781|Cross genera transferability of microsatellite markers from other members of family Bignoniaceae to Tecomella undulata (Sm.) Seem
   > [no abstract]
06782|Evidence for a low‐penetrant extended phenotype of rhabdoid tumor predisposition syndrome type 1 from a kindred with gain of SMARCB1 exon 6
   > sequences. SMARCB1pathogenic variantswereabsent inPBLof the indexpatient’s grandmother I.1, mother II.1, and of another sister III.3. No material was available from a cousin IV.1, daughter of … duplications have previously been reported in a pedigree with ATRT and schwannoma.4 Another pedigree with a cribriform neuroepithelial tumor (CRINET) and incomplete penetrance of germline
06783|Cross-Species Genome-Wide Identification of Evolutionary Conserved MicroProteins
   > genes originated from large ancestral genes by gene duplication, mutation and subsequent degradation. Gene ontology analysis shows that putative microProtein ancestors are often located in
06784|Intelligent Wildlife Monitoring and Repulsion using YOLOv8-Based Bounding Box
   > [no term] The sustainability of agriculture, public safety, and ecological harmony are all seriously threatened by human wildlife conflict, especially in rural areas and those that border forests. Human - wildlife conflict
06785|Phenotype driven data augmentation methods for transcriptomic data
   > imbalances. Machine learning models tend to overfit these data and do not generalise well on out-of-distribution samples. Data augmentation strategies help alleviate this by introducing synthetic data points … introduce two classes of phenotype driven data augmentation approaches – signature-dependent and signature-independent. The signature-dependent methods assume the existence of distinct gene 
06786|Differentiating Irrigation Treatments in Sorghum Using Planetscope Multispectral Imagery
   > the predictive capacity of PlanetScope Multispectral imagery for differences in irrigation across different sites and cultivars of sorghum, (2) the efficacy of Random Forest methods
06787|Artificial Neural Network Based Image Processing for Wild Animal Detection and Monitoring
   > [no abstract]
06788|Research on the Industrial Upgrade of Vegetable Growers in Shaanxi: A Cross-Regional Comparative Analysis of Experience Reference
   > prime goals of this article are to classify farmers’ production structures in different regions through comparative analysis and propose a structural framework that can quantify … industry, facilitating an industrial upgrade by drawing on the development experience of other regions. More specifically, we utilized the tomato growers to construct a five-step
06789|Assessing The Role of Bioclimatic Variables in Shaping Diptera Biodiversity and Distribution in District Faisalabad, Punjab
   > the highest richness, while arid and cooler areas supported more specialized or generalist taxa. Correlation analysis showed strong positive associations between Diptera abundance and both … thresholds in shaping Diptera communities and offer a framework for forecasting climate-induced distribution shifts and managing key fly species. 
06790|UAV-assisted MinMax Entropy and Artificial Intelligence-based Semi Supervised Domain Adaptation Approach for Rice Disease Detection
   > In this paper, a semi-supervised domain adaptation approach is proposed that leverages a MinMax entropy strategy to address domain shift in rice disease detection. The method integrates UAV technology and consumer … and AlexNet, were evaluated for their ability to adapt from a labeled source domain to a target domain with limited labels. The proposed approach minimizes cross-entropy loss in the so
06791|A CNN-Transformer Hybrid for Precise Object Detection in UAV Aerial Imagery
   > weak objects. Broad experiments have been carried out across several benchmark and cross-domain datasets such as indoor detection, agricultural leaf diseases recognition, and X-ray illegal … RTX 4090, out beating state-of-the-art models like YOLOv7, DETR, and RT-DETR. Superior generalization ability is confirmed by cross-domain evaluations, and complementary role of the modules is validated by abl
06792|Semi-supervised learning with Noisy Students improves domain generalization in optic disc and cup segmentation in uncropped fundus images
   > [no abstract]
06793|CR-CLCD: A cross-regional cropland change detection framework with multi-view domain adaptation for high-resolution satellite imagery
   > [no abstract]
06794|Leveraging Large-Scale Face Datasets for Deep Periocular Recognition via Ocular Cropping
   > and complexity to assess their effectiveness for periocular recognition. The networks are trained on 1,907,572 ocular crops extracted from the large-scale VGGFace2 database. This significantly
06795|Effect of Hypoxia on Diet of Atlantic Bumpers in the Northern Gulf of Mexico
   > increase (Pierson et al. 2009; Craig 2012; Roman et al. 2012) and decrease (Taylor and Rand 2003; Ludsin et al. 2009; Zhang et al. 2009) … interrupt trophic interactions. In addition, several studies have used information on species distribution shifts to measure the potential impact of hypoxia on fish growth (Costantini
06796|Environmental change, shifting distributions, and habitat conservation plans: A case study of the California gnatcatcher
   > [no term] Abstract Many species have already experienced distributional shifts due to changing environmental conditions, and analyzing past shifts can help us to understand the influence of environmental stressors on a species
06797|Integrating Deep Convolutional Models and Field Exploration for Wild Allium Species Identification in the Indian Himalayas
   > New Delhi. Eight CNN models-EfficientNetB3, DenseNet121, InceptionV3, ResNet50, MobileNet, VGG16, and Xceptionwere trained on a curated dataset. EfficientNetB3 performed best with a test accuracy of
06798|MatLat: Material Latent Space for PBR Texture Generation
   > Unlike prior methods that freeze the embedding network and thus lead to distribution shifts when encoding additional PBR channels and hinder subsequent diffusion training, we
06799|Monitoring through Community Science: Anna’s Hummingbird Winter Range Expansion into Idaho
   > [no term] Increased urbanization and supplementary feeding are implicated in driving the expansion of the range of the Anna’s Hummingbird (Calypte anna). In many areas this range expansion has been well described,
06800|Multi-temporal analysis of erosional plots using aerial images and deep soil probes
   > ABSTRACT Evaluating erosion processes and their influence on soil degradation over extensive agricultural landscape is difficult. Because of the need for analysis … and extent of erosion and deposition processes, we used images from two different years, showing changes in soil degradation. Orthorectification and unsupervised image classification were followed by interpretation and statistical eval
06801|CODrone: A Comprehensive Oriented Object Detection Benchmark for UAV
   > they are often designed for specific downstream tasks. Consequently, they exhibit limited generalization performance in real flight scenarios and fail to thoroughly demonstrate algorithm effectiveness … we introduce CODrone, a comprehensive OOD dataset for UAVs that accurately reflect real-world conditions. It also serves as a new benchmark designed to align with
06802|Classifying Medicinal Plant Collectors:Their Approach and Attitude
   > [no abstract]
06803|Knowledge Distillation with Pseudo-Labelling for On-Board Earth Observation AI
   > [no abstract]
06804|Design of Smart System for Mitigating Wild Animal Intrusion in Agricultural Farms Using IoT and Deep Learning
   > [no term] The recent development of the Internet of Things (IoT) and Deep Learning models have been enhanced to resolve day-to-day constraints in the agricultural farm. The main constraints are crop damage,
06805|Application of eco-metabolomics in biological science
   > [no abstract]
06806|DeceptionNet: Network-Driven Domain Randomization
   > We present a novel approach to tackle domain adaptation between synthetic and real data. Instead, of employing "blind" domain randomization, … most destructive augmentations. Unlike GAN-based approaches that require unlabeled data from the target domain, our method achieves robust mappings that scale well to multiple target
06807|TAXONOMIC STUDY ON SALVIA SPECIES GROWING IN IRAQ USING POLLEN GRAINS MORPHOLOGY
   > [no term] The present study carried out to classify Salvia species growing in Iraq using pollen grains morphology. Plants of the seven test species collected from Anbar some of and some of
06808|Ripeness Evaluation of Mangoes using Image Processing
   > [no abstract]
06809|Distributional shifts in ectomycorrizhal fungal communities lag behind climate-driven tree upward migration in a conifer forest-high elevation shrubla
   > individuals involved in the altitudinal advance above it. Our data showed a decreasing trend in ECM fungal species abundance, richness, and proportion of species with
06810|YOLO-O: Real-Time Citrus Health Monitoring and Counting Using Lightweight Model on Embedded Architecture for Precision Agriculture
   > optimizations focused on pre-processing and inference management to ensure smooth operation in real-world conditions. The experimental evaluation conducted on actual orchard images confirmed the feasibility
06811|Robust Fault Detection with One-Class Training
   > rare, diverse, and expensive to collect. This study evaluates the performance and generalization capabilities of four data-driven methods trained exclusively on healthy data. The first … operating nuclear power plant and tested for their ability to detect previously unseen fault distributions. Our results highlight trade-offs in sensitivity and generalization across the approaches, with Deep Cente
06812|Multi-Scale ViT Inference with Habitat-Fit Priors and kNN Retrieval for Multi-Species Plant Identification
   > the largest individual contributors in the ablations. Two complementary training-centric directions, a cross-region transformer with noisy-student distillation on the LUCAS dataset and a label-as-query transformer
06813|TFSF: Topological and Feature Space Fusion with Spatio-Temporal Modeling for Crop Yield Prediction
   > is designed to compute the similarity of meteorological and environmental characteristics in different regions and generates graph structures of the feature space. Multiple graph convolutional
06814|A review of foundation models for oral cancer detection and triage in low and middle income countries
   > are common. Foundation models such as large vision–language and promptable segmentation architectures trained on broad corpora can support zero-shot or minimally supervised recognition of lesions … oncology, vision–language models (e.g., CLIP), promptable segmentation (e.g., SAM/MedSAM), adaptation (prompt engineering, test-time adaptation, few-shot learning, federated learning), and equity/govern
06815|Recognition system for masked face based on deep learning
   > [no term] With the spread of the epidemic in the world, wearing masks has become the most simple and effective way to block the COVID-19. For the lack of data and model
06816|Segmentation of Green Vegetation in the Field Using Deep Neural Networks*
   > Green vegetation segmentation in the wild from digital images is an essential step in the precision
06817|Enhancing Image Classification Performance Using Data Augmentation and Adaptive Training Strategies
   > strong augmentation baselines, macro F1 gains of 0.04-0.10, and notably smaller robustness degradations. Minority-class recall improves by $\mathbf{6 - 1 0}$ points. Structure-aware augmentation, with … more informative, augmented views, and fairer learning with extensions to semi-supervised and cross-region transfer as future directions.
06818|Global land-use change: causes and consequences for biodiversity
   > [no abstract]
06819|Abstract 4468: Cross-species analysis and immunophenotyping using of a focused panel of immune-responsive genes
   > and show that a minimal gene set effectively identified cancer immunophenotypes. This cross-species analysis corroborates our previous observation and paves the way for further development … De Velasco, Yurie Kura, Kazuko Sakai, Hideki Nakagaki, Kazuto Nishio, Hirotsugu Uemura. Cross-species analysis and immunophenotyping using of a focused panel of immune-responsive genes [abstract].
06820|Using Citizen Science Data as Pre-Training for Semantic Segmentation of High-Resolution UAV Images for Natural Forests Post-Disturbance Assessment
   > issue. More precisely, we seek to generate pre-training data from a classifier trained on selected exemplars. This is accomplished by using a moving-window approach on
06821|‘Crop Raiding’: Farmers’ Perspectives in Shiwalik Hills of North-Western Himalayas, India
   > [no term] Abstract A study was conducted to ascertain the causes and possible strategies to mitigate the problems of human–animal conflicts in the foothills of the Shiwaliks of the North-Western Himalayas, known
06822|Dynamic Alignment of the Knee (DyAK) Classification: Advancing Knee Evaluation in Robotic Arthroplasty.
   > and type D4 (9.2%). After implant placement, in the final DyAK, the distribution shifted, with type D5 becoming the most common (46.0%), while type D1 decreased to 26.9% and type D4 increased to 13.1%. Overall, 56.9% of patients
06823|AgMIC: Agricultural Masked Image Consistency for Cross-Domain Segmentation
   > crop segmentation using high-resolution imagery. Although DL-based models perform well on their source domain (ground vehicle imagery), they exhibit significant performance drops when applied to the target domain (unmanned aerial vehicles). This degradation occurs due to substantial differences in viewing perspective, image resolution, object appearance … gap, this paper presents agricultural mask
06824|A Semi-self-supervised Learning Approach for Wheat Head Detection using Extremely Small Number of Labeled Samples
   > [no term] Most of the success of deep learning is owed to supervised learning, where a large-scale annotated dataset is used for model training. However, developing such datasets is challenging. In this
06825|Cross-Border Transfer Learning for 1-km Soil Moisture Downscaling in Romania
   > Carpathian regions due to cloud cover. This paper proposes the TADA (Topographically-Aware Domain Adaptation) framework, which eliminates dependence on weather conditions by using static topographic … strategy called Super-Spiking was implemented. The model, using the LightGBM algorithm, was pre-trained on a high-density dataset from Germany (~11.7 million records) to learn the
06826|Determining and GIS Mapping Some Soil and Land Properties in Nigde Province of Turkey
   > [no term] This study was carried out within the scope of spatial evaluation of majör soil groups, land slope, erosion degrees, soil depth classes, and other soil properties by using 1/25.000 scaled
06827|Population-Level Visual Analytics of Smartphone Sensed Health and Wellness Using Community Phenotypes
   > [no term] The development of mobile health (mHealth) assessment machine learning models requires data gathering studies in which smartphone sensor data is gathered continuously from users’ phones as they live their lives
06828|Analysis of genetic relations and evaluation of medicinal value among Hedera plants in China by sequence related amplified polymorphism markers and hi
   > [no abstract]
06829|Characteristics of the Adaptations of Epilithic Mosses to High-Calcium Habitats in the Karst Region of Southwest China
   > [no abstract]
06830|Global range expansion history of pepper (Capsicum spp.) revealed by over 10,000 genebank accessions
   > between the complement of peppers from a focal region and those from other regions—was developed to supplement traditional population genetic analyses. The results reflect a
06831|The folding, dimerization and allosteric landscapes of the ALS protein SOD1: a comprehensive mutational atlas
   > folding. Mapping residual effects uncovers potential allosteric sites that modulate dimer stability independently of monomer folding, revealing mechanistic insights and potential therapeutic entry points to
06832|Development of a deep learning model for early gastric cancer diagnosis using preoperative computed tomography images
   > [no term] Background Gastric cancer is a highly prevalent and fatal disease. Accurate differentiation between early gastric cancer (EGC) and advanced gastric cancer (AGC) is essential for personalized treatment. Currently, the diagnostic
06833|Single-Cell Multi-Omics Reveals Anticipated Erythroid Differentiation and Transcriptional Regulation in Differentiation Trajectories of SF3B1 - JAK2/M
   > the level of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs), we observed a decrease in the activity of classical stemness regulons such as JUN, FOS, and
06834|Phytochrome A and its Functional Manifestations in Etiolated and Far‐red Light‐grown Seedlings of the Wild‐type Rice and its Hebiba and Cpm2 Mutants D
   > genes deleted. Constant far‐red light (FRc) mediated by phyA reduced its content in the wild type (WT) and mutants, and brought about domination of its
06835|[Inspection and workplace fatalities: between expectations and reality].
   > [no abstract]
06836|Exploring the Domestication Syndrome Hypothesis in Dogs: Pigmentation Does Not Predict Cortisol Levels
   > [no term] Simple Summary Domestic dogs have a wide variety of colorations, and previous research has found that, in certain breeds, coat color can be linked to behavior. However, it is unknown
06837|Functional isogenic modeling of BRCA1 alleles reveals distinct carrier phenotypes
   > [no term] Clinical genetic testing of BRCA1 and BRCA2 is commonly performed to identify specific individuals at risk for breast and ovarian cancers who may benefit from prophylactic therapeutic interventions. Unfortunately, it
06838|Occurrence and Distribution of Antibiotic Resistance Genes in Municipal Wastewater Treatment Plants with D-Type Filters
   > [no term] Filters are popularly used in municipal wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) as the final guards against effluent solids; however, their impacts on antibiotic resistance gene (ARG) removal in the WWTPs are
06839|Coffee Crop Detection from UAS Orthomaps with Convolutional Neural Networks
   > preprocessing, and neural network training are discussed. Image datasets were collected at different locations in the central region of Costa Rica between 2018 and 2021. … this methodological approach had average mean accuracies up to 93% (mAP@0.35) on independent test sets; the detection performance achieved was 92% by using yolov4ext-ghost as
06840|Decomposition of the Theil Index in Inequality Analyses in Yogyakarta Indonesia
   > [no term] Yogyakarta is Indonesia’s province with the highest inequality at the Gini ratio of 0.417. This research brings into focus inequality in Yogyakarta and inequality distribution by regions and the economic
06841|Discovery of a Systemic Immune-Inflammatory Axis Bridging the Neuroendocrine System and Breast Tumor Microenvironment via MMD-Regularized Cross-Tissue
   > [no abstract]
06842|A novel binary hashing for agricultural scenery classification
   > active learning algorithm. The GSP reflects the distribution of human gaze across different regions of each agricultural scene, typically involving fewer than 12 regions, as
06843|ERS-KL: Entropy–KL Ratio Scoring for OOD Detection in Plant Disease Recognition
   > Out-of-distribution (OOD) detection is essential for deploying deep neural networks in real-world plant … PlantVillage-style datasets as in-distribution data and major crops leaf disease images as out-of-distribution samples. Experimental results show that ERS-KL consistently improves OOD detection performance, particularly
06844|Forest Wild Fire Detection using Deep Learning Approach
   > [no term] Disasters are happening inrecent times around the world. One of the major disasters which have drawn the most attention is the large area fires, especially forest areas. Forest fires can
06845|Isolation, characterization and toxicological potential of Alternaria-mycotoxins (TeA, AOH and AME) in different Alternaria species from various regio
   > screened out total 48 isolates of Alternaria from different plants belonging to different locations in India, on the basis of their pathogenic nature. Pathogenicity testing
06846|Unveiling Crop Growth Dynamics Through Time Series Multispectral Observation
   > a crucial role in finding the optimal alignment between NDVI data from different years. This alignment allows for a detailed comparison of crop growth patterns
06847|NOVEL APPLICATIONS OF GIS AND ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN FOREST RESTORATION
   > possible, to model former landscape ecological patterns. Modelling might be based on different site-specific approaches and historical records. However, most powerful tools available today include
06848|Safety-Aware Cascaded Inference for Crop Damage Assessment with Controlled Error Trade-offs
   > +0.008 F1-macro, confirming the contribution is architectural rather than representational. Under input degradation, the system prioritizes escalation over confident misclassification, reflecting error containment through architectural … threshold calibration and deployment conditions and do not constitute guarantees under arbitrary distribution shift.
06849|Ethnic Knowledge in Classification and Conservation: A Case Study of Wild Yam in Western Ghats
   > [no abstract]
06850|China Agriculture Information Network Based on Complex Network
   > [no abstract]
06851|Forage over fear: Assessing drivers of site use in response to shooting disturbance in a managed goose species
   > [no term]  Human encroachment into the natural environment through agricultural expansion has intensified human–wildlife interactions. Negative population impacts are regularly associated with this encroachment; however, some species, including geese, benefit from
06852|Machine Learning based Analysis for Radiomics Features Robustness in Real-World Deployment Scenarios
   > learning models show promise for clinical decision support but are vulnerable to distribution shifts caused by variations in imaging protocols, positioning, and segmentation. This study systematically investigates the robustness of radiomics-based machine learning models under distribution shifts across five MRI sequences. We evaluated how different acquisition protocols and … predictive power and
06853|THE STATE OF FLAT-LEAVED BIRCH IN THE URBAN PHYTOCENOSES OF THE MIDDLE AMUR BASIN (ON THE EXAMPLE OF KHABAROVSK)
   > both on average for the urban area and for each functional zone, decreases markedly during the transition from the young to the middle-aged generative age
06854|Spatial Big Data Science
   > [no abstract]
06855|Consumer Class Side Scanning Sonar Dataset for Human Detection
   > images from objects, and full resolution images. Data is collected from two different locations, with different sonar settings. All images are from two rescue divers
06856|WAQUAL: IoT-Based Integrated Water Turbidity Detection and Monitoring System to Improve Water Quality in Semarang
   > needed to optimize and validate the effectiveness of this AI-based system in other regions with similar problems. The implementation of this system could contribute to
06857|End-to-End Person Video Retrieval Using Track-Level Robust Scoring and Dynamic Thresholding
   > the observed score distribution, avoiding false retrievals when confidence is low. After domain adaptation on a custom three-camera campus dataset, OSNet Rank-1 accuracy improves from
06858|A Comprehensive Review of Machine Learning and Deep Learning Techniques for Plant Disease Identification
   > being made to identify plant diseases that are affecting various crops in different regions of the world. Researchers are currently conducting significant research to identify
06859|Abstract PD11-01: An artificial intelligence-based predictor of CDH1 biallelic mutations and invasive lobular carcinoma
   > [no term]  Introduction: Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) is the most frequent special histologic subtype of breast cancer (BC). ILC is identifiable by pathologic assessment given its distinctive discohesive growth pattern, largely
06860|Classification of Wild Isolate Nematode Strains Using Classical Systematics and Molecular Sequencing
   > extremely diverse. To investigate nematode morphological diversity, three soil nematode species isolated in the wild where characterized (strains EM435, AF8130 and AF7340). These isolates were
06861|Composition, diversity and bioactivity of culturable bacterial endophytes in mountain-cultivated ginseng in Korea
   > were isolated from root, stem and leaf of MCGs grown in 24 different sites across the nation, using culture-dependent approach. Sequencing of 16S rDNA allowed … site to the next as well as from one host compartment to another. Assessment of 252 bacterial isolates for their beneficial traits to host plants
06862|Separación y clasificación de los alcaloides presentes en las hojas y flores de la especie Spilanthes urens Jacq
   > [no abstract]
06863|Study of the Physicochemical Characteristics of Different Strawberries Consumed in Morocco
   > Chloride, Glucose, Polyphenols, and Flavonoids of nine samples of strawberries cultivated in different regions of Gharb (East of Morocco). The contents of magnesium, calcium, chloride,
06864|A framework for harmla alkaloid extraction process development using fuzzy-rough sets feature selection and J48 classification
   > [no abstract]
06865|SUMMER SCIENCE & E N G I N E E R I N G SYMPOSIUM | 2022
   > [no abstract]
06866|Forest fires and climate-induced tree range shifts in the western US
   > [no term] Due to climate change, plant populations experience environmental conditions to which they are not adapted. Our understanding of the next century’s vegetation geography depends on the distance, direction, and rate
06867|Understanding a high-risk acute myeloid leukemia by analyzing the interactome of its major driver mutation
   > [no term] The WHO classifies t(6;9)-positive acute myeloid leukemia (AML) as a subgroup of high-risk AML because of its clinical and biological peculiarities, such as young age and therapy resistance. t(6;9) encodes
06868|Multitask ST-LSTM model based on UAV hyperspectral remote sensing for wheat yield prediction
   > Moreover, prediction accuracy and stability are easily affected by environmental factors and distribution shifts across different yield levels. To address these limitations, this study proposed … to optimize the yield prediction task. Experiments on two-year datasets and an independent third-year dataset showed that the proposed model outperformed single-task models and conventional
06869|Unsupervised Mixed Multi-Target Domain Adaptation for Remote Sensing Images Classification
   > image classification, it still requires time-consuming and costly annotations. In recent years, domain adaptation has been witnessed to address this problem as they do not need any human interpreted in the target domain dataset. However, most of the existing works dedicate effort on the circumstance where there is only one source domain and only one target domain. In this paper, we firstly explore
06870|Advancing Remote Sensing With Few‐Shot Learning: A Comprehensive Review of Methods, Challenges, and Future Directions
   > (XAI) and its real‐time application capabilities are discussed. Important issues such as domain shift, class imbalance, and high dimensionality are discussed. Recent refinements such as
06871|Towards crop traits estimation from hyperspectral data: evaluation of neural network models trained with real multi-site data or synthetic RTM simulat
   > training dataset, one consists in ground data collected in three experiments, in different locations and seasons, the second one (hybrid) is composed by synthetic data
06872|A Rose by Any Other Name: Plant Identification Knowledge & Socio-Demographics
   > plants, rather than photographs or illustrations. We conducted face-to-face surveys at three different sites chosen to capture respondents with a range of socio-demographic circumstances, in
06873|Potential of Spectroradiometry to Classify Soil Clay Content
   > DRS data of 412 soil samples, from the 0.0-0.5 m layer, from different locations in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, were measured
06874|ECR Spotlight – Tarun Sharma
   > [no term] ECR Spotlight is a series of interviews with early-career authors from a selection of papers published in Journal of Experimental Biology and aims to promote not only the diversity of
06875|Phenology Alignment Network: A Novel Framework for Cross-Regional Time Series Crop Classification
   > essential role in the study of agricultural application. How-ever, large area or cross-regional crop classification confronts huge challenges owing to dramatic phenology discrepancy among training … framework to address these challenges based on deep recurrent network and unsupervised domain adaptation (DA). Specifically, we firstly propose a Temporal Spatial Network (TSNet) for
06876|Classification of 12-lead ECG Signals With Adversarial Multi-Source Domain Generalization
   > models have been developed to tackle the heartbeat classification problem, their performance degrades on ECG signals recorded in varied testing conditions due to the distribution … among different sources of data. In this work, we have developed a multi-source domain generalization model to address the distribution discrepancy problem that occurred when the collection
06877|Toward generalizable phenotype prediction from single-cell morphology representations
   > nuclear morphology can be a predictive marker for cell phenotypes that is generalizable across cell types. Nucleus morphology is commonly and easily accessible with microscopy, … single-cell morphology features using CellProfiler and DeepProfiler, which provide fast, robust, and generalizable data processing pipelines. We trained multinomial, multi-class elastic net logistic regression models
06878|Abstract P467: Premature Coronary Artery Disease Mortality in the Appalachian Region: Is the Problem Driven by Rural-urban or Socioeconomic Disparitie
   > disproportionate effect on the vulnerable population of the Appalachian region compared to other regions of the United States. It is unknown whether the problem of … Appalachian region itself. We hypothesized that within-region socioeconomic and geographic (rural-urban) disparities, independently of each other, aggravate the premature CAD mortality problem in the Appalachian
06879|A Computational System to Support Fully Automated Mark-Recapture Studies of Ants
   > a growing need to study these insects, both in the lab and in the wild. In this work we describe an end-to-end machine learning/robotic system
06880|Computational anatomy and geometric shape analysis enables analysis of complex 1 craniofacial phenotypes in zebrafish 2 Running title : Craniofacial z
   > [no abstract]
06881|HEAVY RAINFALL PATTERN OVER NORTH WESTERN PARTS IN DRY FARMING REGION OF INDIA
   > be entirely depending on the monsoon rains. High variability of rainfall is another distinguishing feature in this zone. The tract is juxta positioned between arid
06882|Minimizing Cost of System Losses and Sizing of Distributed Generation using Genetic Algorithm
   > network using Genetic Algorithm (GA). The effectiveness of the proposed approach is tested on 12-bus radial distribution network. Results gives the reduction in system losses
06883|AMPD2 deficiency causes variable-onset Leigh syndrome and implicates cytosolic purine balance in the structural preservation of respiratory complex V
   > [no abstract]
06884|Interpretative trajectories towards the understanding of negative features using Terraço das Laranjeiras Bronze Age site as a case study
   > [no term] Abstract In prehistoric sites, the most common features identified by archaeologists are negative ones, such as pits, postholes, hearths, sunken hut, and among others. However, interpretations are not easy, and
06885|Embedded AI for Plant Disease Detection in Precision Agriculture using UAVs
   > a Raspberry Pi 5 evaluated accuracy, inference time, and memory consumption. Automated data partitioning and standardized training ensured reproducibility and comparability. Results revealed trade-offs between
06886|CLASIFICACIÓN Y CARACTERIZACIÓN DE LOS SISTEMAS FAMILIARES DE PRODUCCIÓN BOVINA DE LA REGIÓN FRAILESCA DE CHIAPAS, MEXICO, CON BASE EN EL APORTE DE LA
   > The valley FSSC followed an intensive-technified cattle raising with high use of external inputs and had the highest values of the economic indicators: calves produced … hectare. The valley MFS practiced semi-intensive-technified cattle raising with low use of external inputs which led it had lower economic profitability than that of the
06887|Learning to Detect Novel Species with SAM in the Wild
   > paper tackles the limitation of a closed-world object detection model that was trained on one species. The expectation for this model is that it will not generalize well to recognize the instances of new species if they were present … the new classes while not “forgetting” the original species the model was trained on. We demonstrate our findings on two different domains, (1) wildlife detection
06888|Sensor Network System for Condition Detection of Harmful Animals by Step-by-step Interlocking of Various Sensors
   > [no term] In recent years, damage to crops and injuries to humans by harmful birds and animals have increased in areas of Japan. In order to support the coexistence of humans and
06889|A New Benchmark for Evaluation of Cross-Domain Few-Shot Learning
   > collecting data for meta-learning is infeasible or impossible. This leads to the cross-domain few-shot learn-ing problem, where a large domain shift exists between base and novel classes. Although some preliminary investigation of the few-shot methods under domain shift exists, a standard benchmark for cross-domain few-shot learning is not yet established. In this paper, we propose the cross-domai
06890|Environmental DNA for biodiversity monitoring and conservation CICG, 31 August 2022, room 14, 9.00-11.00
   > [no abstract]
06891|Intelligent Surveillance and Protection System for Farmlands from Animals
   > [no term] Agriculture is an important area for growing crops, as food is the main source of sustainability. India, with its vast agricultural area, has a wide variety of crops, from food
06892|Design of an Improved Model Using Neuro-Symbolic Encoding and Federated Meta-Adaptation for Plant Disease Detection and Explanation Process
   > to warrant the systems for detecting diseases that are robustly interpretable and generalizable. The conventional methods in deep learning are exceedingly accurate, but they fail … Meta-Adaptation with Real-Time Feedback on Crops (FMA-RCF) module also ensures power and cross-region generalizability by decentralized training on IoT-based signals of crop health sets.
06893|Estimates of carbon budgets consistent with global warming of 1.5-2°C from ensembles of simulations with the MIT Earth System Model of intermediate co
   > carried out using distributions of climate parameters affecting climate system response to external forcing obtained by comparison of historical simulations with available observations.</p><p>First, to evaluate … during the 21<sup>st</sup> century is also significantly affected by the assumption concerning decrease of SO<sub>2 </sub>emissions from energy-intensive industries. Implementation of tec
06894|An effective unsupervised domain adaptation for in-field potato disease recognition
   > [no abstract]
06895|Attenuated Total Reflection Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy with Soft Independent Modeling of Class Analogy–Principal Component Analysis for C
   > heterozygosity (WT-hetero). This research explored the FT-IR method, in combination with soft independent modeling of class analogy of principal component analysis (SIMCA–PCA), for the discrimination
06896|Operationalizing Large Language Models for Clinical Research Data Extraction: Methods, Quality Control, and Governance
   > improvements and failure modes of LLM-based extraction and analyze key challenges, including domain shift, factual “hallucinations,” privacy and regulatory constraints, and cost/latency trade-offs. Finally, we
06897|Task-Informed Meta-Learning for Remote Sensing
   > with plentiful labels in some regions but a sparsity of labels in other regions. When developing algorithms for data-sparse regions, a natural approach is to
06898|Improved Unsupervised Domain Generalization by Leaf-Bridge for Soybean Leaf Disease Identification
   > However, most soybean leaf disease recognition models have problems such as weak generalization ability and insufficient labeled soybean images. To overcome these problems, this paper proposes an improved method for unsupervised domain generalization (UDG) named Leaf-Bridge Across Domains (LBADs), which is dedicated to cross-domain soybean leaf disease image recognition. Our method builds a semant
06899|Low-Cost Domain Adaptation for Crop and Weed Segmentation
   > [no abstract]
06900|Unveiling bioearth: statistical assessment of chemical properties, nutrients and heavy metals contamination from legacy dumpsites, Tamil Nadu, India
   > [no abstract]
06901|An Autonomous Weeding Robot with Novel Unsupervised Domain Adaptation
   > [no abstract]
06902|Clusterization of Red Betel Leaves (Piper Crocatum) from Various Regions in Indonesia Based on Secondary Metabolite Fingerprint Analysis and Cytotoxic
   > secondary metabolites of the ethanol extract of red betel leaves from seven different regions (Banda Aceh, Bandung, Bogor, Malang, Samarinda, Kendari, Jayapura) was carried out
06903|Identifying Man-land Relationship Areal Types and Nonlinear Thresholds: A Case Study of Qinba Mountainous in Southern Shaanxi, China
   > [no abstract]
06904|Phylogenetic relationships among Vietnamese cocoa accessions using a non-coding region of the chloroplast DNA
   > [no abstract]
06905|Biodiversity redistribution under climate change: Impacts on ecosystems and human well-being
   > [no abstract]
06906|Elemental fingerprinting and regional verification of Pakistani basmati and non-basmati rice varieties using ICP-MS and multivariate analysis.
   > the elemental composition of Basmati and non-Basmati rice cultivars grown across five different regions in Punjab, Pakistan using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). Distinct
06907|BDMANGO: An image dataset for identifying the variety of mango based on the mango leaves
   > varieties: Amrapali, Banana, Chaunsa, Fazli, Haribhanga, and Himsagar, which were collected from different locations. The images were captured using the rear cameras of a Google
06908|A Survey on Ensemble Computing Method for Rainfall Prediction in Different Regions of Chhattisgarh
   > [no abstract]
06909|PA01: More than meets the eye: a case of encephalocraniocutaneous lipomatosis
   > the midline of the anterior scalp extending from the skin to the external cortex of the skull. A general prominence of the scalp fat in
06910|SPATIAL MAPPING OF COCONUT (Cocos nucifera L.) PLANTATIONS IN SANGKUB DISTRICT, NORTH BOLAANG MONGONDOW REGENCY USING GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS
   > [no term] Coconut plants have many benefits for human life and also as a source of foreign exchange through exports. Sangkub District is one of the coconut-producing sub-districts in North Sulawesi Province.
06911|PRIVACY-PRESERVING PHENOTYPE-AWARE SYNTHETIC INTELLIGENCE FOR FAIR AND RELIABLE MEDICAL IMAGING
   > [no term]  Privacy regulations, demographic imbalances, and uncertainty in clinical deployment constrain the development of medical imaging AI. We propose a unified phenotype-conditioned synthetic intelligence framework that integrates (i) demographic and
06912|Comparative Analysis of Tracking and Behavioral Patterns between Wild-type and Genetically Modified Fruit Flies using Computer Vision and Statistical 
   > [no term] Collective animal behavior occurs in groups and swarms at almost every biological scale, from single-celled organisms to the largest animals on Earth. The intriguing mysteries behind these group behaviors have
06913|Characterization and Classification of Agricultural Soils of Segen Zuria District, Konso Zone, Southern Ethiopia
   > [no term]  Characterization and classification of soils reveal the soils’ potential and limitations for utilization. To describe and classify soils of the study site, a research was carried out in the
06914|Detecting oncogenic selection through biased allele retention in The Cancer Genome Atlas
   > [no term] Background The loss of genetic diversity in segments over a genome (loss-of-heterozygosity, LOH) is a common occurrence in many types of cancer. By analysing patterns of preferential allelic retention during
06915|End-to-End Multi-Domain Joint Learning for Robust Person Re-Identification in Large-Scale Surveillance
   > End-to-end person re-identification (re-ID) remains a critical challenge due to domain shifts, inconsistent feature representations, and the complexity of integrating detection, tracking, and … cameras. Extensive experiments on multiple datasets validate the model’s superior accuracy and generalization. The results demonstrate a significant improvements on cross-camera tracking and person re-ID
06916|The nexus between livelihood goals and livelihood strategy selection: Evidence from rural China
   > in livelihood strategy selection. The livelihood strategy selection preference is consistent in different regions of rural China when households pursue survival and security maximization. From
06917|AAV-mediated gene therapy improves cardiac function in humanized PLN-R14del mice: a preclinical model of PLN-R14del induced cardiomyopathy
   > [no term]  The PLN-R14del mutation is a founder mutation originating in the Netherlands approximately 600-800 years ago and is identified in 10-15% of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) or arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy
06918|A Combined Method for Vegetation Classification Based on Visible Bands from Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) Images: A Case Study for Wild Parsnip Plant
   > [no abstract]
06919|G2B reviews: Epigenetics, epitranscriptomics, microRNAs and more: Emerging approaches to the study of genes, brain and behavior
   > [no abstract]
06920|Vision Transformer with Explainable AI for Cross-Regional Rice Leaf Disease Detection: A Comparative Study with CNNs
   > (89%), with Gradient SHAP providing the most precise disease localization. However, accuracy dropped to 38% on the Indian dataset, revealing domain generalization challenges. The novelty lies in integrating interpretability with transformer-based modeling across
06921|Divergences in Clinical, Anthropometric, Metabolic, and Hormonal Parameters among Different Phenotypes of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome Presenting at Endo
   > [no term] Background: Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a heterogeneous androgen-excess disorder. Data comparing the PCOS phenotypes in Bangladesh are scarce. Objectives: The objective of this study was to find out the
06922|CPJ: Explainable Agricultural Pest Diagnosis via Caption-Prompt-Judge with LLM-Judged Refinement
   > existing methods often rely on costly supervised fine-tuning and perform poorly under domain shifts. We propose Caption--Prompt--Judge (CPJ), a training-free few-shot framework that enhances Agri-Pest
06923|Event Patterns Enhancing Causal Reasoning Method Incorporating Category Theory for Stored Grain Pests
   > achieves a reasoning accuracy of 85.9% on in-distribution data and 79.9% on out-of-distribution data, effectively identifying correct causal chains for pest logic. This method significantly
06924|Using proxy data and vegetation modelling to predict past, current and future distributional shifts of Butea monosperma, a marker of land degradation 
   > Holocene (MH), current and future (2070) climatic scenarios with Maximum Entropy (MaxEnt) trained on present-day occurrences. We identified areas of suitable habitats for which the … measured in terms of variable contribution in MaxEnt model significantly affects the distribution shift of B. monosperma, along with annual precipitation (22.8%) and annual mean
06925|Evaluating Temporal Deep Learning and Tree-Based Models for Rice Irrigation-Practice Classification
   > layers and sequential dependencies through gated recurrent units. Experiments using Random and Spatial Cross-Validation demonstrate that combining SAR and optical features improves classification performance. Notably, the 1D CNN-GRU consistently outperforms traditional machine learning models, particularly under spatial generalization setting, achieving ∼6x improvement in AWD_Recall, demonstrating
06926|A. Datasets, Models and Fine-tuning Hyperparameters
   > [no abstract]
06927|Camouflaged Human Detection: Comparative Analysis Using YoloV5s, Yolov5l, Yolov5m, Yolov5n, Yolov5x Model
   > Once) algorithm and it's different types for performance analysis. The proposed model, trained on the dataset with different regions and angles of images, utilizes YOLOv5 for efficient camouflaged human detection,
06928|A systems biology approach to define mechanisms, phenotypes, and drivers in PanNETs with a personalized perspective
   > [no term] Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (PanNETs) are a rare tumor entity with largely unpredictable progression and increasing incidence in developed countries. Molecular pathways involved in PanNETs development are still not elucidated, and
06929|LiteViT: Leveraging the Power of Transformers for Edge AI in Crop Disease Classification
   > [no term] Plant diseases have a significant impact on crop yield, presenting a serious challenge to food security. Despite advances in Artificial Intelligence (AI) for improved disease detection, real-world implementation remains limited
06930|Local adaptation to novel habitats and climatic changes in a wild tomato species via selective sweeps
   > with the demographic history, allele frequencies, the age of selection events, and distribution shifts. We find evidence for several selective sweeps targeting regulatory networks involved
06931|A Novel Dataset for Evaluating and Alleviating Domain Shift for Human Detection in Agricultural Fields
   > In this paper we evaluate the impact of domain shift on human detection models trained on well known object detection datasets when deployed on data outside the … methods to alleviate such phenomena based on the available annotations from the target domain. Specifically, we introduce the OpenDR Humans in Field dataset, collected in
06932|Pix2pix Conditional Generative Adversarial Network with MLP Loss Function for Cloud Removal in a Cropland Time Series
   > spectral response improving further crop type mapping. Furthermore, it was evaluated the generalization capacity of the generative models in producing pixels with plausible values for … an F1-score of 44.2%, while the real image achieved 44.7%. Regarding the generalization, the models trained utilizing different regions of the same image provided better pixels than models trained using
06933|THEORETICAL AND APPLIED BASIS FOR CREATION OF SPATIALLY- DIFFERENTIATED SYSTEMS OF SOIL QUALITY MANAGEMENT BASED ON SPACE SCANNING DATA
   > [no abstract]
06934|Combining Neutron and Magnetic Resonance Imaging to Study the Interaction of Plant Roots and Soil
   > use the same samples and perform tomography with each imaging method at different location and short-term sample transfer.
06935|Climate change threatens pollination services in tomato crops in Brazil
   > [no abstract]
06936|SatoyamaCT: A Multi-Axis Night-IR Camera-Trap Benchmark for Monitoring Crop-Damaging Wildlife in Japanese Agroforestry
   > in-distribution, rarely prioritize night infrared imagery, and do not jointly address regional domain shift, novel-species detection, and uncertainty-based triage on a single dataset. We introduce … inter-annotator agreement reached Cohen's kappa = 0.900. A multi-axis protocol jointly evaluates domain generalization across region, camera placement, and illumination; open-set novel-species detectio
06937|Backbone-Preserving Physics-Guided Digital Twin Modelling for Reliable State and Molecular-Quality Forecasting in Batch Polymerization
   > while purely data-driven models can violate physical constraints and are prone to generalization failure when faults and/or distribution shift occur. A physics-guided digital twin for batch styrene polymerization was developed, … 19.16% across the operating regimes. All three physics guided neural candidates, however, degraded validation NRMSE by 3.38-4.40% and did not pass the physics-residual ac
06938|Parcel-Level Mapping of Horticultural Crop Orchards in Complex Mountain Areas Using VHR and Time-Series Images
   > m, the complex mountainous areas were divided into subregions with their own independent characteristics according to a zoning and hierarchical strategy. The parcels in the … were subsequently used to extract the parcels according to the characteristics of different regions. Then, Sentinel-2 images were used to construct the time-series characteristics of
06939|Abstracts from the 2022 Annual Scienti ﬁ c Meeting of the British and Irish Hypertension Society (BIHS) 1 The MTHFR C677T polymorphism is associated w
   > [no abstract]
06940|RADIOACTIVE AND HEAVEY METALS IN SAHL EL-TENA AND THEIR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, NORTHWESTERN SINAI, EGYPT
   > were collected from the uppermost 0-30 cm top layer of soil at different sites from Sahl El-Tina area (Fig.1), as well as five plant samples … wet sieving from sand using 0.63mm sieve. The clay and silt were transferred to one liter cylinders pipette analysis according to method of Piper (1953).
06941|XooNet: a high-throughput UAV-based approach for field screening of bacterial blight-resistant germplasm in wild rice
   > [no term] Bacterial blight (BB) poses a significant threat to rice production, necessitating efficient screening of resistant wild rice germplasm to facilitate breeding. Traditional methods are labor-intensive and subjective, while existing UAV-based
06942|Understanding Stability of Protein-Protein Complexes
   > [no abstract]
06943|IoT Sensor System Feature Ablation Study for Robust Anthracnose Disease Classification in Jamun Plants Using Machine Learning
   > highlight the MLP model’s resilience to missing data and practical applicability in real-world conditions, making it a robust tool for precision agriculture and disease monitoring
06944|Automatic Recognition of Wild Boar Using Deep Learning
   > [no abstract]
06945|Carton dataset synthesis based on foreground texture replacement
   > comprehensive pharmaceutical logistics company(CPLC), e-commerce logistics company(ECLC), fruit market(FM). However, due to domain shift, the model trained with carton datasets from one of the three scenarios in SCD has poor generalization ability when applied to the rest scenarios. To solve this problem, a … at least $4.3\%\sim6.5\%$ on RetinaNet and $3.4\%\sim6.8\%$ on Faster R-CNN for the targe
06946|Identification of risk areas for Orobanche cumana and Phelipanche aegyptiaca in China, based on the major host plant and CMIP6 climate scenarios
   > (Helianthus annuus and Solanum lycopersicon) using MaxEnt. Then, the risk zones and distribution shifts of two broomrapes under different climate conditions were identified by incorporating … aegyptiaca. The potentially suitable areas and risk zones of O. cumana would decrease significantly, and those of P. aegyptiaca would fluctuate slightly under future climate
06947|KNOWLEDGE BASED CLASSIFIER BASED ON BACKSCATTERING COEFFICIENT FOR MONITORING THE CROP GROWTH ANALYSIS USING MULTI-TEMPORAL IMAGES OF SPACE-BORNE SYNT
   > and analysis of rice crop growth based on the backscattering values in different regions of Asia and European region, where backscattered image depends of various
06948|Is synthetic voice detection research going into the right direction?
   > [no term] Machine Learning, and in general Artificial Intelligence approaches, brought a great advance in each and every field of Computer Science increasing accuracy levels of predictors in any known problem. Indeed,
06949|Climate change and aquatic food systems: fish species shifts, productivity threats, and adaptive pathways
   > [no abstract]
06950|Classification of intra‐specific variation in plant functional strategies reveals adaptation to climate
   > [no abstract]
06951|Abstract 4342257: Beyond Heritability: Multimodal AI Integrating Imaging and Genetics Enables Population-Scale Precision Coronary Artery Disease Risk 
   > after accounting for imaging. Third, to determine whether non-cardiac imaging modalities contribute independent information. Methods: We analyzed data from over 60,000 UK Biobank participants with … were reduced using principal component analysis and integrated with a multi-ancestry PRS (trained on >2M individuals), metabolic and ECG traits, and baseline variables in a
06952|Investigating Climate Change Risk of “ Oil and Gas” City: Case of Dumai City, Indonesia
   > can have an impact on people’s lifelines. This study investigates the risk distribution shift of climate change impacts in Dumai, which generally have oil refineries
06953|Overview of LifeCLEF Plant Identification task 2020
   > diversity of plants in the world. The challenge was evaluated as a cross-domain classification task where the training set consist of several hundred thousand herbarium
06954|Foraging niche partitioning within a recently established guild of falcons
   > known about patterns of niche differentiation when ‘newcomer’ species spontaneously colonize a new region, leading to novel sympatric conditions. Over the past 15 years, three
06955|Large Vision Language Model: Enhanced-RSCLIP with Exemplar-Image Prompting for Uncommon Object Detection in Satellite Imagery
   > processing achieved 72% accuracy in cattle detection and 56.2% overall accuracy on cross-domain transfer tasks, significantly outperforming text-only CLIP (31% overall accuracy). The dual-prompt architecture enables effective few-shot learning and cross-regional transfer from data-rich (UK) to data-sparse (Nigeria) environments, demonstrating a 41% improvement
06956|Leveraging Transfer Learning with MobileNetV2 for Amla Leaf Spot Disease Detection in Agricultural Imagery
   > and climate conditions makes it difficult to deploy a consistent solution across different regions. Current machine learning approaches often struggle with generalization, leading to poor performance in diverse agricultural environments. This work proposes a
06957|Multi-elemental analysis of Ziziphora clinopodioides from different regions, periods and parts using atomic absorption spectrometry and chemometric ap
   > In this study, ten trace elements in Ziziphora clinopodioides Lam., Lamiaceae, from different regions, periods and parts in Xinjiang were determined by atomic absorption spectrometry following microwave-assisted acid digestion. The decreasing sequence of elements levels was K > Ca > Mg > Fe … geographical distribution for the most regions. Variation in the elements exhibited a decreasing trend, bu
06958|Predicting tile drainage discharge using machine learning
   > [no abstract]
06959|Nazi occupation regime 1941–1944 in the territory of Dnieper Ukraine in modern national historiography
   > subsequent influence on the stratification of the population’s opinion are analyzed. Priorities, external factors and circumstances which created the situation of choice for a person … heritage, managed to show the living and labour conditions of workers from different regions of Ukraine in Germany, revealed the psycho-physical state of Ostarbeiters, etc.
06960|CropAT: Leveraging Diffusion-Generated Target-Like Cropped Objects for Pseudo-Label Refinement in Domain-Adaptive Object Detection
   > adaptive object detection (UDAOD) aims to adapt the source detector to the target domain using labeled source data and unlabeled target data. To mitigate the … the two domains, existing methods adopt the Mean Teacher (MT) framework for domain adaptation, selecting high-quality pseudo-labels generated by the teacher model to supervise the
06961|Analysis of soil suitability for agricultural needs using machine learning methods
   > of accessible and cost-effective data collection methods for scaling the model to different regions. Despite the model’s high accuracy, limitations related to data specificity and … Expanding the model with additional climatic and geographic data could enhance its generalizability and applicability in diverse agricultural settings. Overall, this study provides insights into
06962|Concentration of emerging census towns of C.D. Block Kaliachak-I in Malda district: Location quotient and rank size rule analysis
   > [no abstract]
06963|MiR-192-Mediated Positive Feedback Loop Controls the Robustness of Stress-Induced p53 Oscillations in Breast Cancer Cells
   > [no term] The p53 tumor suppressor protein plays a critical role in cellular stress and cancer prevention. A number of post-transcriptional regulators, termed microRNAs, are closely connected with the p53-mediated cellular networks.
06964|DENETHOR: The DynamicEarthNET dataset for Harmonized, inter-Operable, analysis-Ready, daily crop monitoring from space
   > [no abstract]
06965|What can we learn from the high rates of schizophrenia in people with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome?
   > [no abstract]
06966|Prototype Augmentation with Dummy Samples
   > color jitter, and random crop) before feeding them to the feature extractor. Another way is using generative models, such as GAN, to expand the available … Samples(PADS). Experiments are carried out both in standard few-shot image classification and cross-domain scenarios and we achieved significant improvement with comparison to the baseline.
06967|Unsupervised domain adaptation semantic segmentation method for wheat disease detection based on UAV multispectral images
   > [no abstract]
06968|Classifying Soils: Points of Convergence in Indigenous Knowledge Engagement with Scientific Epistemologies
   > there are similarities in the indigenous epistemologies related to farming activities in different regions (such as West Africa, southern Africa, and Oceania) therefore arises. Given
06969|Acoustic insights into the corn extrusion process for enhanced quality control
   > and water content. Experimental data from laboratory and industrial settings reveal distinct domain shifts, yet consistent findings confirm the distinguishability of various extrusion process parameters
06970|Coward: Collision-based OOD Watermarking for Practical Proactive Federated Backdoor Detection
   > FL clients, whereas current proactive detection methods are misled by an inevitable out-of-distribution (OOD) bias because they rely on backdoor coexistence effects. To address these
06971|BioDet: Boosting Industrial Object Detection with Image Preprocessing Strategies
   > off-the-shelf object detectors followed by cropping and pose refinement, but their performance degrades under challenging conditions such as clutter, poor lighting, and complex backgrounds, making … work, we introduce a standardized and plug-in pipeline for 2D detection of unseen objects in industrial settings. Based on current SOTA baselines, our approach reduces domain shift and background artif
06972|A kind of Fault Locating Method of complicated distribution line
   > [no abstract]
06973|Morphological profiling by Cell Painting in human neural progenitor cells classifies hit compounds in a pilot drug screen for Alzheimer’s disease
   > [no abstract]
06974|Lifetime Maximization of Wireless Sensor Networks for a Fault Diagnosis System Using LEACH Protocol
   > the life time characteristics of each node while keeping base station at different locations. The life time of different nodes is heavily dependent on the … the right location of the base station for a given plant is another contribution of this work.
06975|A satellite-derived baseline of photosynthetic life across Antarctica
   > of Antarctic vegetation, and large-scale area estimates remain unquantified. With local vegetation distribution shifts now apparent and further predicted in response to environmental change across
06976|Comparative analysis of the main active constituents from different parts of Leonurus japonicus Houtt. and from different regions in China by ultra-hi
   > planting base in Jiangsu Province (China). The result showed that LJ in different regions with different geographical position would affect the accumulation of different compounds,
06977|Differentiation of rice varieties using small bioactive lipids as markers
   > [no abstract]
06978|AI-Powered Cross-Crop Companion Planting Advisor: An Integrated Random Forest and IoT Framework for Sustainable Agriculture
   > often require the expertise of agronomy. The presented investigation presents an AI-based Cross-Crop Companion Planting Advisor, a maize choice helpful device, which combines Internet of … of crops, were preprocessed, augmented with synthetical environmental representations as well as trained on with the model. This model presented in this paper produced an
06979|The Hammer Forging of Ti-6Al-4V Alloy
   > [no term] In this paper, the research results of hammer forging process of titanium alloy Ti-6Al-4V are described. It is hard deformable alloy so forming details with complex shape from this alloy
06980|The Overlooked Influence of Hybridization on Cognition
   > [no term] For many animal species, cognitive traits are important for fitness. Such traits may be especially important in rapidly changing environments, where innovation and learning about new challenges could mean the
06981|‘ORGANIC TEMPER’ AND THE EARLY NEOLITHIC POTTERY PRODUCTION: INTERPRETATIONAL CHALLENGES
   > [no term] the hallmarks of the Early Neolithic pottery production at many sites along the Eurasian Neolithisation trajectories (e.g. Todorova & Vaysov 1993; Elenski 2006; Özdoğan 2011; Çilingiroğlu 2012; Vuković 2016). The
06982|Deep learning-based open set domain adaptation for plant disease recognition across multiple greenhouse scenarios
   > [no abstract]
06983|AgriFewNet—A Lightweight RGB Few-Shot Learning Model for Efficient Plant Disease Classification
   > new disease classes using minimal labeled samples while maintaining high reliability in real-world conditions. AgriFewNet employs a hierarchical attention-enhanced ResNet-18 backbone incorporating dual spatial and … to extract discriminative RGB features. A Model-Agnostic Meta-Learning (MAML) approach facilitates quick generalization to previously unexplored illness categories, while a prototype-b
06984|Defect Detection of Photovoltaic Panels to Suppress Endogenous Shift Phenomenon
   > power plant inspections a challenge. Therefore, we propose the Gather and Distribute Domain shift Suppression Network. It adopts a single domain generalized method that is completely independent of the test samples to address the problem of distribution shift. Using a one-stage network as the baseline network breaks through the limitations of traditional domain generalization methods that typicall
06985|Domain-Informed Graph Neural Networks for Climate Factor Forecasting to Support Sustainable Crop Management
   > DoIGNN performs forecasting on both the ACHZ-guided and static-dynamic graphs to learn cross-region dependencies. Experiments on real-world climate datasets demonstrate that DoIGNN consistently improves forecasting
06986|Design Pattern for Decomposition or Aggregation of Automation Systems into Hierarchy Levels
   > favorable for classifying the identified entities in different hierarchy levels. The intuitive, cross-domain approach creates commonly understandable, abstracted digital twins of the entities in form
06987|Use of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) and multispectral imagery for quantifying agricultural areas damaged by wild pigs
   > [no term] Abstract Wild pigs (Sus scrofa) cause extensive damage to agricultural crops, resulting in lost production and income. A major challenge associated with assessing damage to crops is locating and quantifying
06988|Land Cover Change as a Proxy of Changes in Wildlife Distribution and Abundance in Tarangire-Simanjiro-Lolkisale-Mto wa Mbu Ecosystem
   > and built-up land increased from 2000 to 2020. Grassland, wetland and woodland decreased from 48.1%, 14.1% and 4.4% in 2000 to 19.5%, 10.3% and 2.5% … terrestrial vertebrate species and their habitats through wildlife habitat destruction and land degradation leading to the changes in the wild animals’ abundance and distribution. The research highlights the need for
06989|Improved Herbarium-Field Triplet Network for Cross-Domain Plant Identification: NEUON Submission to LifeCLEF 2021 Plant
   > [no abstract]
06990|Co-Evolution Dynamics of Pollinators and Plants Under Climate Stress
   > quantified through genetic variance and selection analyses, and the stability offered by generalized networks. We explore the genomic and epigenomic mechanisms that may underpin rapid
06991|Bridging the Domain Gap in Agricultural Vision: Parameter-Efficient VLM Adaptation via Expert Descriptions
   > standard CLIP-LoRA baselines in zero-shot and few-shot settings. Critically, it demonstrates superior domain generalization on real-world field datasets, effectively bridging the performance gap between controlled
06992|Convergence of AI, IoT, Big Data and Blockchain: A Review
   > [no abstract]
06993|Continuous biome representations from Earth observation embeddings
   > for predicting species occurrence (mean per-species AUC 0.618 vs. 0.570 across 10 spatial cross-validation folds). Decomposing this gain shows that continuity in the graded probability
06994|Detection of XMN1-Gγ Polymorphism Among Patients with HbE/Βeta Thalassaemia in North East Malaysia
   > [no abstract]
06995|Context-aware machine learning for estimating the remaining useful life of bearings under varying speed operating conditions
   > models can effectively deal with modeling complex phenomena such as the bearing degradation process, specifically under varying operating conditions. However, obtaining large labeled datasets for … structure. A Context-aware Domain Adversarial Neural Network is proposed to remove the domain shift between the simulated signals and the real ones as well as
06996|Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) in herbaceous Centaurium erythraea affected by various sources of environmental pollution
   > [no abstract]
06997|Joint Multi-Person Body Detection and Orientation Estimation via One Unified Embedding
   > [no term] Human body orientation estimation (HBOE) is widely applied into various applications, including robotics, surveillance, pedestrian analysis and autonomous driving. Although many approaches have been addressing the HBOE problem from specific
06998|Survival and growth of a high-mountain daisy transplanted outside its local range, and implications for climate-induced distribution shifts
   > [no term] Abstract Field transplant experiments can improve our understanding of the effects of climate on distributions of plants versus a milieu of biotic factors which may be mediated by climate. We
06999|Smart Agriculture Based on IoT and Machine Learning
   > [no term] The IoT advancements have majorly influenced in redefining the agricultural field. A reliable remote monitoring system is the need of the hour. In this paper, two objectives are addressed. Firstly,
07000|Advancing Plant Identification Through Leaf Image Analysis: A Comprehensive Review of Literature and Techniques
   > as hyper-spectral and thermal imaging, the application of transfer learning techniques for domain adaptation, and the use of explainable AI methods to enhance model interpretability
07001|Chemical composition and oral toxicity assessment of Anisophyllea boehmii kernel oil: Potential source of new edible oil with high tocopherol content.
   > [no term] Anisophyllea boehmii is an indigenous and wild species in Burundi. Its fruits are edible and commercialized in local markets. This study investigates chemical quality, composition and toxicity test of A.
07002|A Comparative Analysis of Image Classification Models Across Multiple Domains and Benchmark Datasets
   > [no term] Image classification remains one of the fundamental tasks of computer vision, whereby visual data can be automatically labeled, which allows further applications like medical diagnostics, self-driving cars, and environmental monitoring.
07003|Deep Learning Approaches for Grape Leaf Disease Detection- Challenges and Future Directions
   > accuracy, practitioners lack a consolidated view of robustness under field variability and external tests. Using a dual-reviewer protocol across IEEE Xplore, Scopus, Web of Science, … image splits often overstate performance relative to plant- or vineyard-grouped splits and external tests; cross-dataset transfer typically degrades results; segmentation-plus-classification pipelines can mitigate ba
07004|Research on Automatic Extraction of Tobacco Plants Based on U2-Net of Convolutional Block Attention Module and UAV Visible Images
   > regions of A, B, and C, most of the accuracy factors in different regions can reach 94% and above. It can be seen that the
07005|Intrinsically Bayesian robust classifier for single-cell gene expression trajectories in gene regulatory networks
   > [no term] BackgroundExpression-based phenotype classification using either microarray or RNA-Seq measurements suffers from a lack of specificity because pathway timing is not revealed and expressions are averaged across groups of cells. This
07006|Efficient Noninvasive FHB Estimation using RGB Images from a Novel Multiyear, Multirater Dataset
   > we introduce a novel dataset consisting of around 3,000 images from 3 different years (2020, 2021, and 2022) and 2 FHB severity assessments per image from independent raters. We used a pretrained EfficientNet (size b0), redesigned as a regression … 0.76 for the data captured in 2020, respectively. The model shows a generalization effect when trained with data from multiple years and tested on data
07007|Approximation of advection-diffusion equations using implicit WENO methods
   > [no abstract]
07008|Pixel-Weighted Domain Adaptation for Agricultural Segmentation
   > and label definition mismatches. To address these challenges, we investigate how supervised domain adaptation (DA) techniques can enhance model transfer beyond naive fine-tuning on limited … DA strategies can offer significant benefits over simple fine-tuning, especially under severe domain shifts.
07009|AgriDoctor: A Multimodal Intelligent Assistant for Agriculture
   > contexts remains limited due to the absence of specialized datasets and insufficient domain adaptation. In this work, we propose AgriDoctor, a modular and extensible multimodal … 300000 bilingual prompts for intent-driven tool selection. Extensive experiments demonstrate that AgriDoctor, trained on AgriMM, significantly outperforms state-of-the-art LVLMs on fine-grained agricultural tasks, establi
07010|Can coastal plantation forests substitute for natural coastal forests as bird and plant habitat? A test across coastal zonation
   > Plantations also significantly altered coastal zonation patterns in plant communities: forest species distribution shifted seaward, whereas coastal and introduced species shifted landward. Coastal plantations are
07011|Stable classification with limited sample: transferring a 30-m resolution sample set collected in 2015 to mapping 10-m resolution global land cover in
   > obsolete that it is no longer suitable for transferring the sample to different years or to data obtained from a different sensor. On the other … and errors in sample. (a) As sample size increa increases the accuracy decreases. In both cases, the 1,000 times random drawing of sam deviations much
07012|Robotics in Precision Agriculture: Task-, Platform-, and Evaluation-Oriented Review
   > to improve reproducibility and cross-study comparability. This review identifies recurring bottlenecks in domain shift, long-term autonomy, calibration robustness, crop-safe actuation, and safety assurance near humans,
07013|Development of machine learning models for air temperature estimation using MODIS data
   > [no abstract]
07014|Self-supervised training for high-resolution close-range multispectral remote sensing imagery
   > in Finland. Pretraining used four spectral bands (Green, Red, Red-Edge, Near-Infrared) for cross-sensor compatibility. The models were evaluated on crop-weed semantic segmentation using the WeedMap … on both tasks, surpassing the Swin Transformer model of Doornbos et al. pretrained on a pre-release of msuav500K. Our pretrained Swin Transformer further demonstrated cross-sensor and cross-region gen
07015|High variability within pet foods prevents the identification of native species in pet cats’ diets using isotopic evaluation
   > [no term] Domestic cats preying on wildlife is a frequent conservation concern but typical approaches for assessing impacts rely on owner reports of prey returned home, which can be biased by inaccurate
07016|Assessment of reference evapotranspiration using ANN at Mulde, Maharashtra
   > properly validated and numbers of variables remain constant from one simulation to another. The ANN approach estimates evapotranspiration under limited climatic data conditions. The many … meteorological data from three stations in northwest China. They found that for different locations and climatic conditions the ANN models exhibited potential advantages for ET
07017|Tweether: A Visualization Tool Displaying Correlation of Weather to Tweets
   > [no abstract]
07018|Editorial: Identification of in vivo markers for human polarized macrophages: a need that's finally met
   > [no abstract]
07019|Distribution trends of some species of the Brassicaceae family in Latvia
   > [no term] Abstract Rūrāne I., Evarts-Bunders P., Nitcis M., 2018: Distribution trends of some species of the Brassicaceae family in Latvia. - Botanica, 24(2): 124-131. The aim of this paper was to
07020|Recognizing Foods using Deep Neural Networks under Domain Shift
   > [no abstract]
07021|Integrated IoT-Based Air Quality Monitoring and Prediction System: A Hybrid Approach
   > increased interest in air quality measurement and prediction. By connecting sensors in different locations, It is simpler to detect air pollution thanks to the Internet
07022|Genome-Wide Characterization of SnRK Gene Family in Mangrove Plant Avicennia marina and Function of AmSnRK2.7-AmENO2 Module in Response to Salinity.
   > [no term] Sucrose non-fermenting-1-related protein kinase (SnRK) is a plant serine/threonine kinase that mediates stress signaling, yet its function in the mangrove Avicennia marina remains unexplored. In this study, we identified 46
07023|Bridging the Subpopulation Gap: A New Paradigm for Robust Fault Diagnosis in Rotating Machinery
   > combining label propagation with time–frequency consistency regularization. Motivated by limitations of existing domain adaptation methods, we propose a unique dataset partitioning strategy that models subpopulation
07024|Pancreatic cancer: why we must be optimistic?
   > [no abstract]
07025|Isolation and characterization of bacteriocin-like inhibitory substances producing lactic acid bacteria from indigenous food samples.
   > three years. 46 LAB isolates exhibited inhibitory activity against other LAB and non-LAB gram-positive bacteria in broth medium. Three of forty-six isolates were selected for
07026|Robust, Explainable Cross-Dataset Deepfake Video Detection: Attention-Pooled Face Sequences with Compression-Aware UDA-DANN and Interactive GUI
   > manipulation models pose growing risks to digital trust, yet detection systems often degrade sharply when evaluated on data from unseen sources due to compression artifacts and dataset-specific biases. This paper presents a robust and explainable cross-dataset deepfake video detection framework based on face-centric video representations. For each video, … video-level representation, enabling both
07027|The Analysis of Infectious Diseases via Machine Learning [an abstract of dissertation and a summary of dissertation review]
   > [no abstract]
07028|‘Fly to a Safer North’: Distributional Shifts of the Orchid Ophrys insectifera L. Due to Climate Change
   > [no term] Simple Summary Climate change is one of the major threats to plant diversity and is expected to force species distributions into latitudinal or altitudinal shifts. The complex biology of orchids,
07029|Development of SLAF-Sequence and Multiplex SNaPshot Panels for Population Genetic Diversity Analysis and Construction of DNA Fingerprints for Sugarcan
   > [no term] A genetic diversity analysis and identification of plant germplasms and varieties are important and necessary for plant breeding. Deoxyribonucleotide (DNA) fingerprints based on genomic molecular markers play an important role
07030|Domain Targeted Synthetic Plant Style Transfer using Stable Diffusion, LoRA and ControlNet
   > is of particular interest to users of artificial data because of the domain shift problem created by training neural networks on images generated in a … and image-to-image style transfer, with a particular interest in synthetic to real domain adaptation targeting specific real datasets. Utilizing new advances in generative AI, we
07031|Semantic Segmentation of Herbarium Specimens Using Deep Learning Techniques
   > [no abstract]
07032|Unsupervised domain adaptation for DNN-based automated harvesting
   > of fast adaptation of the trained network to minor changes in the source domain without annotating new data. This method is known as Adversarial Domain Adaptation, in the current paper it is applied to the problem of … additional subnet on unannotated data, which makes it possible to compensate the domain shift due to adversarial training. This approach allows us to monotonically increase
07033|BDHusk: A comprehensive dataset of different husk species images as a component of cattle feed from different regions of Bangladesh
   > [no term] This study presents a recently compiled dataset called “BDHusk,” which encompasses a wide range of husk images representing eight different husk species as a component of cattle feed sourced from
07034|MMTC Communications - Frontiers
   > [no abstract]
07035|Custom Object Detection for Fresh and Rotten Fruit Classification
   > fresh banana, rotten banana. After data collection, the next step involved was data partitioning into training and validation datasets through a data splitting technique. Regarding
07036|Hyperspectral Image Residual Denoising Network Based on Mixed-Domain Attention Mechanism
   > this way, the model is guided to simultaneously focus on all the cross-domain features that are influential in denoising tasks. We take the average value … and channel attentions. In order to avoid the gradient disappearance and model degradation caused by the deepening of the network, we utilize two weighted skip
